JAPAN, U.S. SET TO BEGIN HIGH-LEVEL TRADE TALKS
Japan and the U.S. Kick off top-leveltrade talks tomorrow amid signs officials from both sides aregrowing increasingly irritated with each other.    The talks, held annually at sub-cabinet level to review thewhole gamut of U.S./Japan economic relations, will pave the wayfor American Secretary of State George Schultz's one daystop-over here at end-week on his way home from China.    Faced with growing Congressional protectionist pressure,the U.S. Administration is pressing Japan for speedy action toreduce its still huge trade surplus, U.S. Officials said.
    "We appreciate their frustration," a senior Japanesegovernment official said. "But we are also frustrated."    The official said the 40 pct rise of the yen over the last18 months has hit Japan hard, forcing exporters to slashspending and lay off workers to make up for lost sales abroad.
That has not yet shown up in dollar-based statistics on trade,but it will, he said.    He said the U.S. Administration was ignoring the progressthat has been made and instead emphasizing the problems thatremain when it talks with Congress.    "It would only take five minutes to list theiraccomplishments," a senior U.S. Official replied.
    The talks begin tomorrow with high-level discussions on theeconomic structures of both countries and how they affect thebilateral trade imbalance, which last year amounted to 51.48billion dlrs in Japan's favour.    On the following two days, the topics will range frommultilateral trade talks under the auspices of the GeneralAgreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) to such bilateral tradeproblems as super computers.
    The structural talks are intended to be free-wheelingdiscussions among senior officials. Tomorrow's topics includesavings and investment issues such as consumer credit andhousing, and the implications of government budget deficits.    These talks come at a particularly delicate time for theJapanese government, which is facing increasing domesticpressure to abandon its tight-fisted fiscal policy andstimulate the sagging economy by spending more.
    Some U.S. Officials complained Japan has no intention ofboosting domestic demand and imports, as Washington wants.    Japanese officials in turn pointed the finger at the hugeU.S. Budget deficit as one of the main culprits for the tradeimbalance. That budget deficit has meant that the U.S. Isbuying more imports.
    Japan seems particularly peeved at being singled in a drafttrade bill before the Senate as a nation following adverserialtrade practices. "It condemns Japan without due process," oneJapanese official said.    That reference spoils what is otherwise a well-thought-outbill introduced by Democratic Senator Lloyd Bentsen, he said.
    Japan is also not totally happy with the administration'strade bill, particularly its proposal to establish reciprocalaccess to foreign markets as one criteria for retaliatory tradeaction by the U.S., Officials said.    Nevertheless, Japanese officials said they remain in a weakbargaining position, especially with the threat of a trade billoverhanging them.    "We have no leverage," one official admitted.
    As a result, Tokyo is striving to meet U.S. Complaintsabout its trade practices in a variety of fields, includingsuper computers.    The U.S. Is pressing for greater access to the Japanesesuper computer market.    The Japanese government has sent a long questionnaire topublic institutions like universities which buy thesophisticated machines in hopes of eventually setting upinformal bidding procedures easily understood by all potentialsellers, officials said.
 REUTER