TALKS SHOW NEW CANADIAN CONFIDENCE, GROUP SAYS
Canada's decision to raise the issueof a free trade pact with the U.S. was a sign of what many seeas a new spirit of Canadian self-confidence, a public policystudy group said     "It suggests the Canada of the immediate post-war period,when it was a major player in the process of building a postwarworld," the Washington-based Atlantic Council said.    U.S. and Canadian negotiators opened talks last summeraimed at dismantling trade barriers between the two countries,the world's biggest trading partners with crossborder shipmentsof about 150 billion dlrs annually.    The council's study said the trade talks, with a deadlineof October for an agreement, are the biggest issue inU.S.-Canadian relations.
   The study said liberalized trade between the two countrieswould improve the competitiveness of their economies in worldmarkets and lessen trade irritants which now mar their ties.    The council said "in the past most Canadians have shied awayfrom the notion of a free-trade arrangement, fearing to beoverwhelmed economically and politically by a closerassociation with a country 10 times their size in population."    But at the same time, it added, Canadians realized theirdomestic market was too small to permit the mass production andsales needed to raise productivity to the level demanded by anincreasingly competitive world.
    The council said that in the talks, Canada is chieflyinterested in minimizing the imposing of U.S. duties against allegedly subsidized exports.    A recent example was the 15 per cent duty the U.S. imposedon Canadian lumber exports on grounds the shipments were beingsubsidized.    The council said the chief U.S. concerns included endingcurbs against U.S. banking, insurance, telecommunications, andthe so-called "cultural industries" - publishing, broadcastingand films.
    It said other major U.S.-Canadian issues were defensecooperation, "acid rain" and the U.S. rejection of a Canadianassertion of sovereignty over waters of the Northwest Passage. Reuter