CHINA CALLS FOR BETTER TRADE DEAL WITH U.S.
China called on the United States toremove curbs on its exports, to give it favourable tradingstatus and ease restrictions on exports of high technology.    But the U.S. Embassy replied that Chinese figures showing13 years of trade deficits with the U.S. Out of the last 15 areinaccurate and said Peking itself would have to persuadeCongress to change laws which limit its exports.     The official International Business newspaper todaypublished China's demands in a  editorial to coincide with thevisit of U.S. Secretary of State George Shultz.
     "It is extremely important that the U.S. Market reduce itsrestrictions on Chinese imports, provide the needed facilitiesfor them and businessmen from both sides help to expand Chineseexports," the editorial said.     "The U.S. Should quickly discard its prejudice againstfavourable tariff treatment for Chinese goods and admit Chinainto the Generalised System of Preference (GSP).     "Despite easing of curbs on U.S. Technology exports inrecent years, control of them is still extremely strict andinfluences normal trade between the two countries," it added     The paper also printed an article by China's commercialcounsellor in its Washington embassy, Chen Shibiao, who saidthat "all kinds of difficulties and restrictions" were preventingbilateral trade fulfilling its full potential.
     He named them as U.S. Protectionist behaviour, curbs ontechnology transfer and out-of-date trade legislation.     The paper also printed a table showing that, sincebilateral trade began in 1972, China has had a deficit everyyear except 1972 and 1977. It shows the 1986 and 1985 deficitsat 2.
09 billion and 1.722 billion dlrs.     A U.S. Embassy official said the U.S. Did not acceptPeking's trade figures at all, mainly because they excludegoods shipped to Hong Kong and then trans-shipped to U.S. WhileU.S. Figures are based on country of origin.
     He said that, if China wants to obtain GSP status, it willhave to lobby Congress itself to persaude it to amend severallaws which currently prevent Peking getting such status.     The U.S. Trade Act of 1974 says that to qualify for GSP,China must be a member of the General Agreement of Tariffs andTrade (GATT), for which it applied in July 1986, and "not bedominated or controlled by international Communism."     The official said China was well aware of the laws, someof which date to the anti-Communist early 1950's, but thatthere is not sufficient political will in the U.S. To changethem.
     China has been the subject of about a dozen casesinvolving anti-dumping in the U.S. Within the last two years,which the U.S. Side won, he said.     But, for the first time, China signed last week anagreement which it itself initiated to voluntarily restrainexports of at least two categories of steel goods, which maylead the U.S. Side to withdraw the anti-dumping case, he added.     Another diplomat said willingness to provide suchvoluntary export restraints would be an important issue inbilateral trade issues and in Peking's application to GATT.     "China has the potential to disrupt world markets,especially in textiles.
 Other GATT countries will be nervousabout China in this respect. But there is a precedent for othercentralled planned economies in GATT," the diplomat said.     Poland, Czechoslovakia, Hungary and Romania are members ofGATT but none has China's massive market potential for importsor its vast labour pool to produce cheap exports.
     In a speech today in the northeast city of Dalian, U.S.Secretary of State George Shultz said his country welcomedChina's interest in participating in GATT.     "The process of Chinese accession will not be accomplishedovernight -- the GATT rules were not designed for a largeeconomy of the Chinese type," Shultz said.     "China can play an important role by actively joining GATTdiscussions seeking to expand general trading opportunities andenhance market access for exports worldwide. China can furtherdevelop its foreign trade system so as to gain the maximumbenefit from its GATT participation," he said.
     The problems facing U.S.-China trade and GATT membershipare similar -- a pricing system which many foreign businessmenregard as arbitrary and not related to actual costs, especiallyfor exports, and a de facto dual currency system.     In a memorandum backing its application presented to GATTlast month, China said it was gradually reforming its economicsystem and replacing mandatory instruction with "guidanceplanning" and economic levers.     The diplomat said that, to join GATT, China had much todo.
 REUTER