SPAIN TO LAUNCH EXPORT DRIVE
Spain unveils a 105 billion peseta planthis month aimed at boosting exports to reach EuropeanCommunity levels, director-general of the INFE exportinstitute, Apolonio Ruiz Ligero, said.    "The target is to raise exports to 20 pct of Gross DomesticProduct over the next four years compared to 15 pct now," hesaid.     "This is the minimum prevailing level in the EC and thereis no reason why we should lag behind countries like Italy,which have a similar productive structure," he said.
    The plan calls for providing soft loans, tax cuts and otherfiscal benefits to exporters and raising Spain's presence ininternational trade fairs.    Consumer goods such as fashion and wine, as well astraditional industrial exports will be promoted.    Ruiz Ligero said INFE would double its annual budget to 20billion pesetas to finance the four-year plan, while thegovernment's development aid fund (FAD) would provide a special25 billion peseta grant.
    The plan calls for boosting exports by five to six pct inreal terms this year after a 7.4 pct decline last year.    Ruiz Ligero attributed this drop to a lack of demand indeveloping countries and a rally in domestic consumer demand,which rose six pct last year after 1.
9 pct in 1985.    He added that 80 pct of Spain's exports went toOrganisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD)countries.    The EC accounts for 60 pct of the market and exports to theCommunity rose seven pct last year.
 The government plans toconcentrate efforts on Western Europe and the U.S.    "The problem is convincing businessmen that exports arevital to survival in the context of EC competition," he said.    He said Spanish businessmen traditionally turned to thedomestic market to satisfy rises in consumer demand, whileturning their backs on foreign markets.    "They have to realise their share of the home market isgoing to shrink with growing deregulation," he said.
 "Foreigncompanies are taking up positions in the domestic economy andit is it vital to secure a market share abroad." REUTER