BRITISH AIDE CRITICIZES U.S.PROTECTIONISM
A senior British official said thatprotectionist bills being considered by Congress could triggerretaliation by the European Community (EEC) and threaten theglobal trading system.    Paul Channon, secretary for trade and industry, said ifCongress passed legislation to curb textile imports, whichwould hit EC shipments as well as shipments from major Asiantextile producers, "the community would have to retaliate."    His comments echoed those made yesterday by Belgian TradeMinister Herman De Croo, who said if the bill passed, thecommunity would retaliate by imposing taxes on U.S. exports.
    Channon made his remarks at a news conference after twodays of talks with Reagan Administration officials and membersof Congress.    De Croo was also in Washington for trade talks.    Channon said there was a greater protectionism sentiment inCongress since his visit here last year as Congress and theAdministration tried to find ways to reduce the U.S. tradedeficit, which last year hit a record 169.
8 billion dlrs.    Channon also called for greater EC-U.S. cooperation toforce Japan to open its markets to foreign goods.    Channon said Japan's trade surplus is causing everyoneproblems - its surplus with the United States last year was51.
5 billion dlrs and with EC nations, 16.7 billion dlrs.    "The more united pressure there could be, the better," hesaid.
    Channon also called for increased U.S.-EC cooperation toavoid trade disputes.    He said the two sides narrowly avoided a confrontationearlier this year over lost grains sales when Spain andPortugal joined the community and its liberal importsregulations were tightened to conform to EC standards.    "But if both sides drew back from the brink that time," hesaid, ""it does not mean that they would do so on anotheroccasion.
"    Channon added that "There is increasing reesentment inEurope over the U.S. tactic of negotiating under the pressureof unilaterally imposed deadlines."    He said other potential conflicts are already in sight -alleged European government subsidies of Airbus aircraft andtaxes on fats and oils - and "the commuity and the United Statesmust therefore learn to manage their relations better."    He said another bill to let the United States retaliateagainst a nation if that nation's market was not open to U.S.goods would bypass the trade pact GATT (General Agreeeement onTariffs and Trade) as an arbiter of trade practices.
    He said foreign trade law should be judged by GATT and notby the United States, adding "if the (trade) law is to beinterpreted by the United States and not by the GATT, what isto happen to the rest of us?"    reuter