ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - POLISH SANCTIONS
Poland says U.S. Sanctions have cost itseconomy 15 billion dlrs and has made clear it wants Washingtonto take a lead in repairing the damage after lifting remainingrestrictions two weeks ago.    Polish officials are unable to provide a precise breakdownof the figure, saying it takes into account a number ofhypothetical losses. Some of them are "too sophisticated toconvert into financial terms," one banking source said.
    But Western economic experts say the effect of sanctions isimpossible to calculate.    They say it is blurred by the poor performance of Poland'seconomy, and dismiss the 15 billion dlr figure as illusory.    "Sanctions have provided a very useful excuse for under-achieving.
 They did have a bad effect, yes, but they onlycontributed to largely internal, economic problems," one said.    The U.S. Imposed the measures and withdrew Most FavouredNation (MFN) trading status from Poland in 1982 in retaliationfor suppression of the Solidarity free trade union undermartial law. The estimated cost to the Polish economy wasoriginally devised several years ago by the Institute ofNational Economy, an offshoot of the central planningcommission.
    According to one Western envoy, an expert on Polisheconomic affairs, it extrapolated 1979 information on growthtrends in trade with the United States, as well as increases incredits from Western commercial and government lenders.    But the calculations were based on a time when trade wasbooming and credits still flowed freely, he said, dismissingthe estimate as "a theoretical projection based on a high point,which has no real scientific evaluation."    A foreign trade ministry official said Polish exports tothe U.S. In the late 1970s averaged around 400 mln dlrsannually and had fallen by half since the sanctions wereimposed.
    Imports have suffered, slumping from around 800 mln dlrs to200 mln, as credits ran out. Poland has a dwindling tradesurplus with the West. Last year it was one billion dlrsagainst a targeted 1.
6 billion, official figures show.    Acknowledging that sanctions have lost Poland importantU.S. Markets -- including agricultural equipment, textiles,chemicals and some foodstuffs -- Western economists say creditsdried up for economic not political reasons.  "Poland isaccusing the West of letting economic relations deteriorate forpolitical reasons," said one expert.
 "It's an illusion based on amisunderstanding of Western economy."    "There's a limit to how much you can go on giving someonewho has no hope of repaying it," another said, adding thatPoland had benefited from a global phenomenon of easy creditsin the 1970s which were no longer today's reality.    Describing the 15 billion dlr assessment as "nebulous," onediplomat said it also included losses of hypothetical ordersand setbacks to Polish research through the curbing ofscientific links and exchanges.
  Western officials say thelifting of sanctions and new MFN status will have little impacton Poland, which has a hard currency debt of 33.5 billion dlrsand lacks the means to modernise its industry.    "MFN doesn't really mean anything, only that Poland will notbe treated worse than other countries.
 It will be difficult toregain access to the U.S. Market because different forces arein play now," said one Western envoy.    He said Polish products were not competitive, and theirquality was too low. Trade wars and possible protectionistmeasures amongst the U.S., Japan and Europe would also hamperPoland's efforts to regain entry.
    Deputy foreign trade minister Janusz Kaczurba recognisedthis fact recently.    Kaczurba told the official PAP news agency recently, "Makingup our lost position will take a long time and be uncommonlydifficult, and in certain cases impossible..
. In a period oftwo to three years it will be possible to increase the level ofexports by only about 100 mln dlrs."    While Poland is unlikely to seek compensation, it says ithas a "moral right" to assistance from the U.S. Which it saysimposed the sanctions illegally.
 But a Western economist said"The argument that U.S. Sanctions were a unilateral torpedoingof the Polish economy won't cut any ice. The Americans willjust reply that the Poles acted immorally in crushingSolidarity."    Nevertheless, Polish National Bank head Wladyslaw Baka, intalks in Washington last week with the International MonetaryFund (IMF) and World Bank, made it clear that Poland waslooking for a lead from the United States.
    He was quoted by PAP as saying that Poland would meet itsfinancial obligations to the United States, "but not in a shorttime and not without a cooperative stand on the part of itsforeign economic partners."    He stressed that the U.S. "had a particular opportunity toplay a part in the cooperative policy of Poland's partnersinterested in the settlement of Polish debt."    Putting it more sharply, one senior banking official blamedWashington for obstructing talks with the World Bank, IMF andParis Club of Western creditor governments in recent years andsaid it should now play a more positive role.
    "As a major superpower the United States can influenceinternational organisations," he said, citing recent meetingsaimed at stabilising currencies as an example of the extent towhich Western nations were prepared to cooperate. REUTER