YEUTTER SAYS BUDGET CUT KEY TO BETTER U.S. TRADE
A reduction of the U.S. federal budgetdeficit will be needed to help eliminate the nation's hugetrade deficit, U.S. trade representative Clayton Yeutter said.    Speaking to the New York Chamber of Commerce and Industry,Yeutter said "Capital and trade flows are clearlyinter-releated now.    "Unless we get the budget deficit down, we will not get thetrade deficit down.
"    He did not elaborate on his views of the linkages betweenthe two deficits.    Private analysts have said that the financing of large U.S.budget deficits requires heavy capital inflows from overseasinvestors through purchases of U.S. Treasury and, to a lesserextent, other U.S. securities as well.    "We'll make some progress in reducing the 170 billion dlrtrade deficit in 1987, but there's still a long way to go,"Yeutter said.
    He said the problem must be approached on many fronts andfocus most strongly on U.S. and overseas fiscal and monetarypolicies to foster economic growth, U.S. competitiveness andthe establishment of a "level playing field" for trade.    The U.S. trade representative said the Federal Reserveunder Chairman Paul Volcker has done its part to improve thetrade situation by getting interest rates down.    On the fiscal side, Yeutter said "the budget deficit isstill our biggest problem" and there has not been enoughprogress toward reducing that deficit.
    In the international area, he said that "our major tradingpartners could still do more to stimulate domestic growth."Commenting on Japan, which is running around a 80 billion dlrtrade surplus with the United States, Yeutter said "Japan isjust not doing the job on the import side."    Yeutter declined to comment on statements relating to thedollar made earlier today by Commerce Dept undersecretary ofEconomic Affairs Robert Ortner.
    In a Washington address to an Export-Import Bank sponsoredmeeting, Ortner said he believed the dollar at current levelswas fairly priced against most European currencies, but thatthe yen is 10 or 15 pct undervalued.    "The market will determine the dollar's proper value in theend," Yeutter said. However, he added that, if the U.S. andother nations do not take the necessary steps to cut the U.S.trade deficit, "the dollar will be the equalizer.
"    Yeutter said there is no quick fix to the trade problem andany resort to such tactics as protectionist trade legislationor trade restrictions poses real dangers.    He said "there's relatively little that Congress can do tolegislate a solution to the trade problem."    Protectionist legislation will only provoke retaliation byU.S. trading partners, Yeutter said.
    "There is no doubt in my mind about the willingness of ourtrading partners to retaliate against unfair tradelegislation," Yeutter said, adding that policy flexibility isessential in solving international trade problems. Reuter