CONSENSUS BUILDS FOR WORLD AGRICULTURAL REFORM
Top U.S. and European farm trade andgovernment representatives called for a sweeping reform ofworld agriculture to redress a critical demand and supplyimbalance.    Speakers at a conference on world agricultural markets heredemonstrated a growing U.S.-European consensus on the need foran urgent and collective overhaul of world farm trade andproduction.    "It is vital that we work together to bring more freedom andharmony into the world agricultural trade.
..(if not) thedisruptions in markets may grow even more severe, the walls ofprotection climb higher and the level of possible retaliationbecome more harmful," U.S. Department of Agriculture DeputyAdministrator William Bailey said.
    Bailey said his attendance at the two-day meeting, whichends tomorrow, demonstrated the U.S. recognises the need toadjust its policies to the changing market environment.    The need for urgent reforms is justified by the "imbalanceand tensions of the world economy," the secretary general of theOrganisation for Economic Cooperation and DevelopmentJean-Claude Paye said.    And the forum for such a reform is the General Agreement onTariffs and Trade, he noted.
    Paye stressed the need for a progressive and jointreduction of agricultural subsidies as well as social measuresto help farmers in unprofitable areas.    Another possible solution would be to stop supporting farmprices, allowing them to be fixed by supply and demand, andinstead help farmers through income support and adjustmentaids, proposed James Howard, Executive Vice-president ofCargill (USA), one of the world's largest cereal houses.    Franz-Josef Feiter, agricultural adviser to West GermanChancellor Helmut Kohl, agreed the European Community must takegreater heed of market constraints in fixing farm prices.
    However, "differentiated policy treatment is required" totake account of large disparities in the situation around theEC, he said.    "Agriculture is an efficient sector of the European economyand will remain so if the right policy is pursued within theCommunity," he said. Reuter