STUDY SAYS U.S., CANADA PACT WOULD SPUR ECONOMIES
A free trade pact between the UnitedStates and Canada could spur the economies of both sidessubstantially, according to a study released by the Institutefor International Economics.    The study, by Paul Wonnacott, said a successful conclusionto the free trade talks now under way could raise Canada'sgross national product by more than five pct and expand U.S.export's by about seven pct.    He said the pact could resolve the knotty issue ofgovernment subsidies, end curbs on trade in services andinvestments and pave the way for new global talks under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade.
    The United States and Canada - the world's two biggesttrading partners with cross border shipments of about 150billion dlrs a year - opened free trade talks last June. Theyare aiming for a pact by next October.    Wonnacott, an economics professor at the Univerity ofMaryland, said an agreement should include:    - Elimination of tariffs between the two countries, phasedin over a five to 10-year period;    - Equal access to federal government procurement in the twocountries, replacing current "Buy America" and "Buy Canada"provisions with a "Buy North America" provision;    - Fewer restrictions in trade in services, chiefly financeand transportation;    - A commitment not to screen foreign investments in favordomestic producers;    - A commission to resolve bilateral trade disputes.
     Wonnacott said that to resolve the subsidy problem, thetwo sides should permit export subsidies of exports of up to2.0 or 2.5 pct without imposing coutervailing duties.
    The limit on subsidies is now 0.5 pct.    He proposed that any attempt to impose new duties to offsetsubsidies should go first a special disputes commission forresolution at an early stage.
    Wonnacott said "bilateral free trade would contribute to theefficiency of the North American economies and to theircompetitiveness in facing overseas producers.    He said it would it would open U.S. markets to Canadiangoods and enable them to benefit from the economies of massproduction.    Benefits to the United States would be fewer than those toCanada proportionately, he said, because of the already largeU.S. gross national product.
    Wonnacott said also that a U.S.-Canada pact in such areasas export subsidies and the creation of a dispute commissioncould set an example for the current attempt by GATT to writenew and more liberal global trading regulations. Reuter