ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - JAPAN PUSHES ITS CHIPMAKERS
Japanese microchip makers are beingstrong-armed into compliance with a U.S.-Japan pact onsemiconductors halting predatory pricing and opening Japan'smarket to foreign chips, industry analysts said.    But doubts remain over whether the Ministry ofInternational Trade and Industry (MITI), which is pressuringthe firms, can successfully battle market forces and whetherthe U.S. Industry is geared up to take advantage of anybreathing space, they said.    U.S. Threats to scrap the agreement signed last Septemberhave pushed MITI to try harder to get recalcitrant Japanesechipmakers to abide by the pact, the analysts said.
    "MITI has been moving hot and heavy throughout the industryto get things done," said Bache Securities (Japan) associatevice president Peter Wolffe.    Last month, MITI told chipmakers to cut production for theJanuary to March period by 10 pct to help dry up inexpensivechips that have escaped from Japan to grey markets not subjectto the pact's price controls.    The ministry also asked electronics firms to providedistributors with certificates designating them as authorisedexporters, in an effort to close loopholes through which greymarketeers sneak chips out of Japan, market analysts said.
    U.S. Trade negotiators here last week said the pact was injeopardy because of continued dumping in non-American marketsand little sign of increased foreign sales in Japan.    But major Japanese firms appear to have agreed to theproduction cuts, several analysts said. Last week, NEC Corpsaid it would cut production in line with MITI's request.
    "NEC has been the most aggressive in resisting MITI'sdemands," said David Keller, analyst at James Capel and Co. "OnceNEC cuts production, it means they all have."    Still, pressures remain to keep production high.
 Japanesefirms need high output to cut unit prices for U.S. Sales thatthe Commerce Department assigns them under the pact.    "The best way to lower cost is to produce more," said SalomonBrothers Asia Ltd analyst Carole Ryavec.    Preparations for a possible upturn in demand could alsospur higher production next quarter, Merrill Lynch analyst MattAizawa said.
    Grey marketeers may also be able to outfox any newrestrictions, some industry officials said.    "It's like tax avoidance schemes," said Steve Donovan, headof MMI Japan K.K. "As soon as you close one route, anotheropens."    MITI's pressure has annoyed some makers, who had earliershrugged off MITI guidance.
    "It's getting to be like communism," said one.    But analysts said output cuts could help by making iteasier to increase prices as planned on April 1 and forcingfirms to stop extending market share by selling at a loss.    "They're going to have to start running their businesseslike businesses," Bache's Wolffe said.
    MITI has also been conducting a highly public campaignurging chip users to buy foreign-made chips, but U.S. Industryofficials said response has been mixed at best.    "There has been some change, but it's not across the board,"said one U.S. Spokesman. "The companies have a varying degree ofurgency.
"    The ultimate impact of all these efforts by MITI on thetroubled U.S. Industry remains in doubt, analysts added.    Pressure to cut production of 256 kilobit DRAM (dynamicrandom access memory) chips could merely speed the transitionto one megabit chips, where Japan now leads, analysts said.    Whether U.S. Firms are able to stage a comeback in memorychips, or interested in doing so, also remains unclear, theysaid.
    Analysts are watching with interest the fate of a new U.S.Consortium which hopes to challenge Japan by developing themost advanced technology for microchip manufacturing.    Even in the thorny area of access, much depends on U.S.Commitment as well as on Japanese openness, some said.    "The SIA (U.S. Semiconductor Industry Association) doesn'teven have an office here," a source close to the industry said.
"You could question just how committed they are."    In addition, some industry analysts question theeffectiveness of a bilateral agreement that leaves out thirdcountry chipmakers such as those in South Korea.    "(South) Korea's gaining market share," said one analyst.
"They're the real winners from the agreement." REUTER