KOREA PLANS TO OPEN MARKETS TO EASE WON PRESSURE
South Korea will further open its marketto help cut its trade surplus with the U.S. And to fight offpressure to revalue the won against the dollar, a governmentspokesman said.    The spokesman said Korean trade minister Rha Woong-Bae'sstand in Washington yesterday against pressure from industrialnations to revalue the won underlined the government'sdetermination to stand firm.    Rha told the U.S. Chamber of Commerce "Demands that Koreacarry out a drastic and sudden currency revaluation of five or10 pct are, I believe, extremely ill-advised.
"    Deputy prime minister Kim Mahn-Je told a meeting of localbusinessmen "The government's policy on the question ofrevaluing the won is to maintain a steadfast position."    Kim said South Korea was ready to move slowly to raise thewon's value because of its heavy foreign debt which stood at44.5 billion dlrs at the end of 1986.
    Six industrialised nations agreed in Paris last month thatnewly industrialising countries, such as South Korea andTaiwan, should allow their currencies to appreciate.    But local businessmen have said won/dollar parity hasalready reached "a crisis level."    An official of the Korea Traders' Association (KTA) said ifthe won strengthened another five pct, this would mean the lossof profitability for nearly half of all South Korean exporters.
    "We are determined not to go the way of Latin Americandebtor nations which have suspended interest payments of theirdebts," the spokesman said. "The only way to keep our good recordis to maintain our exports.+    The trade minister said yesterday should Seoul revalue thewon suddenly Korea would run "a tremendous trade deficit andcould degenerate into a country, like many other developingcountries, which is reneging on its international obligations.
"    The spokesman said South Korea had been graduallyappreciating its currency, ruling out a major revaluation. Sofar this year, the won has gone up by 0.8 pct against thedollar after a 3.
34 pct revaluation in 1986.    He said South Korea was selecting "many" of 122 items onwhich Washington recently asked Seoul to lower tariffs to helpnarrow its trade surplus with the U.S. No further details weregiven.    Seoul announced in January the lifting of bans on 158items, including sensitive agricultural products and largecars, effective from July.
    South Korea posted its first ever current account surpluslast year, due largely to a trade surplus with the U.S. Of 7.1billion dlrs, against a 4.3 billion deficit in 1985.
 It earlierforecast that its current account surplus could reach eightbillion dlrs this year.    But the government official said the surplus would be heldat around five billion dlrs to avoid further pressure byindustrialised nations to push up the value of its currency. REUTER