HUNGARY HOPES DEVALUATION WILL END TRADE DEFICIT
National Bank of Hungary firstvice-president Janos Fekete said he hoped a planned eight pctdevaluation of the forint will spur exports and redress lastyear's severe trade deficit with the West.    Fekete told Reuters in an interview Hungary must achieve atleast equilibrium on its hard currency trade.    "It is useful to have a devaluation," he said.
 "There is now areal push to our exports and a bit of a curb to our imports."    The official news agency MTI said today Hungary woulddevalue by eight pct and it expected the new rates to beannounced later today. Fekete said the rates would come intoeffect tomorrow.
    He said one reason for the devaluation was that Hungary hada higher rate of inflation over the past two years than itsmain partners (around eight pct in 1985 and between five and5.5 pct in 1986).    This was partly an after-effect of action Hungary took toprevent inflation from soaring during the oil price shocks ofthe 1970s, he added.
    Hungary devalued by a similar amount last September and bybetween three and four pct early last year.    But the country's hard currency trade balance neverthelessfell into a deficit of 539.4 mln dlrs from a surplus of 295.
3mln in 1986 and 1.2 billion in 1985.    Fekete said Hungary was hoping for a hard currency tradesurplus of between 200 and 300 mln dlrs this year, but that amore likely outcome would be closer to equilibrium on totalhard currency trade of around 10 billion dlrs.
    One Western commercial attache here said: "Devaluation ofitself will not change anything. It will only be useful if theyalso make efforts to restructure industry and improve thequality of their export goods."    Fekete said he hoped to raise credits on good terms thisyear to invest in restructuring industry.
    It would be his role to persuade international banks tocooperate in this process. He noted Hungary had been given anAA rating enabling it to raise money on the Japanese Samuraibond market.    Hungary's net hard currency debt soared to 7.
79 billiondlrs last year from 5.01 billion in 1985, partly because of acurrent account deficit of 1.42 billion dlrs and partly becausethe fall in the dollar increased the dollar value of debtdenominated in marks or yen.
    He said he feared net debt would also rise slightly thisyear, but he was in favour of borrowing for the purpose ofmodernisation.    "I am for credits to invest for that purpose," he said. "I amagainst credits for consumption.
" He forecast gross domesticproduct growth of two pct this year, from one pct in 1986.   Fekete said Hungary would continue to restructure its debtprofile by prepaying high interest shorter and medium termloans with cheaper long term money for which it was lookingmore and more to the fixed interest rate bond market, where heconsidered rates to be low.    Hard currency foreign exchange reserves would stay ataround 3.
5 billion dlrs, he said. On the budget deficit, whichtripled to a provisional 47 billion forints last year afterquadrupling in 1985, Fekete said the finance ministry wasworking out measures to reduce an approved target deficit forthis year of 43.8 billion forints to between 30 and 35 billionforints.
 REUTER