SOUTH KOREA TO MAINTAIN TRADE SURPLUS 3-5 YEARS
South Korean Trade Minister RhaWoong Bae said his nation would maintain a trading surplus forthree to five years as a way to cut its foreign debt.    He said in an interview with Reuters that after a few yearsit was likely South Korea would drop barriers to foreign goodsand move toward a more balanced trade position.    He said the present trade surplus was vital if his nationwas to reduce its 44.
5 billion dlr foreign debt.    Rha said that 1986 was the first year South Korea had atrade surplus - 4.5 billion dlrs, against a 1985 deficit of 900mln dlrs.
    Asked if South Korea would drop its trade barriers once itsforeign debt was substantially reduced, he said "yes, I thinkso."    Rha made his remarks at the end of a two-week trade missionhere during which a team he led agreed to buy U.S. productsvalued at 1.8 billion dlrs.
    About 800 mln dlrs of the purchases are in goods of thetype South Korea normally bought from Japan.    Rha was to leave later today for Ottawa for trade talkswith Canadian officials and businessmen.    He said in the interview the U.S. purchases were to reducehis country's 7.
1 billion dlr surplus with the United Statesand also to cut its 5.6 billion dlr shortfall with Japan.    Rha said it was also due to a shift in exchange ratesbetween the U.S. dollar and the yen that made it cheaper to buyU.S. goods than Japanese goods.
    He said South Korea heavily relied on foreign trade and hehoped the leaders of major trading nations could find a way toresolve the growing trend toward protectionist legislation.    Rha said "I hope the leaders can get together to find asolution by making some mutually satisfactory concessions."    But he added "the leaders seem hesitant to make concessionsbecause of domestic political reasons.
"    Speaking of his own country, he said "We have made a lot ofconcessions already."    He cited regulations permitting foreign investment inindustrial firms, allowing increased foreign banking activityand cracking down on piracy of intellectual property bystrengthening protection of copyrights and patents.    Rha said South Korea had also lowered many of its tariffs.
    Asked if South Korea would retaliate against U.S. goods ifCongress closed U.S. markets to its products, he said "at thismoment, we have no thought of retaliation."    South Korea is a major exporter to the United States oftextiles and apparel and electronic goods, such as televisionsets, video cassette records and personal computers.    Its puchases from the United States include electronictesting equipment and grains and cotton.
    The trade mission's purchases here included three Boeingpassenger planes for 400 mln dlrs, four McDonnell Douglasplanes for 300 mln dlrs; and machinery worth 725 mln dlrs. Reuter