U.S. HOUSE PANEL TAKES FIRST TRADE BILL VOTES
House trade lawmakers took theirfirst votes on measures designed to toughen U.S. trade laws butheld over until tomorrow the most difficult votes oncontroversial plans to protect American industries.    Meeting in closed session, the House Ways and Means TradeSubcommittee failed to resolve one of the most sensitive issuesin the bill--whether they will force major foreign tradingpartners to severely cut their trade surpluses with the UnitedStates.    The subcommittee is considering a toned-down version ofDemocratic-sponsored trade legislation that aims to openforeign markets but which drops last year's effort to forcePresident Reagan to retaliate with quotas or tariffs.
    Congressional aides who asked not to be identified said thelawmakers intend to wrap up their proposals tomorrow and willconsider a proposal to mandate retaliation without settingspecific trade penalties.    The legislation faces another hurdle in the full Ways andMeans Committee next week before the full House votes on it.    Rep.
 Richard Gephardt, a Missouri Democrat who is seekinghis party's 1988 presidential nomination, said he may offer anamendment to call for reductions in the trade surpluses ofthose countries with barriers to imports of U.S. goods.    This would be a moderated version of his earlier plan toforce a mandatory ten per cent annual cut in the trade surpluswith the United States by Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, WestGermany and other countries with the largest trade imbalances.    "My criteria for a good amendment sets a standard forgetting the trade deficit down," he told reporters.
    The trade law changes are to become part of a majorcongressional and administration effort to turn around therecord U.S. trade deficit of 169 billion dlrs last year byopening up foreign markets and making U.S. products morecompetitive.    House Speaker James Wright, a Texas Democrat, said againtoday he expects the full House will approve the trade bill byMay and that Reagan will accept the final congressional bill.    "I expect whatever is reported (by the Ways and MeansCommittee) will pass.
 We will have a good bill and an effectivebill," he told reporters.    The comprehensive trade bill will include work by othercommittees to ease export controls on high technology, to aidU.S. workers displaced by foreign competition, to stimulateresearch and development, to remove foreign trade barriers andto improve education and worker training.    The lawmakers agreed that for the first time a U.S.industry could charge foreign producers with unfair competitionif they deny basic worker rights such as collective bargaining,safety rules and payment of a minimum wage appropriate to thecountry's economic development.
    They transferred to U.S. Trade Representative ClaytonYeutter the powers now held by Reagan to decide whether toretaliate against foreign violations of fair trade rules andwhether an injured industry deserves import relief.    They agreed to make it easier for a company to gettemporary relief from import competition but agreed theindustry should provide a plan to become competitive.    The administration has not announced its support butYeutter said yesterday, "I am cautiously optimistic," that theDemocratic-led House will come up with an acceptable bill.
 Reuter