SOVIET MINISTER SAYS TRADE BOOST UP TO FRENCH
Soviet first deputy prime ministerVsevolod Murakhovsky said at the end of a brief visit here hiscountry wanted to boost joint business with France, but that areduction of France's trade deficit with the Soviet Uniondepended on the French.    Murakhovsky, who is also chairman of the StateAgro-Industrial Committee (GOSAGROPROM), told a news conferencehe had discussed a variety of possible deals with Frenchcompanies Rhone-Poulenc, Pechiney and Imec.    Declining to put figures on possible contracts he said hehad discussed plant protection and the processing of highlysulphuric gas with Rhone-Poulenc, packaging technology foragricultural products with Pechiney, and fruit and vegetablejuice processing with Imec.
    An official for Pechiney said an agreement of intent onpackaging could be signed soon, but could not give any otherdetails. The other two companies were not immediately availablefor comment.    Asked whether he foresaw a reduction this year of France'strade shortfall, at 7.
6 billion francs in the first 11 monthsof 1986 against 5.1 billion for the whole of 1985, Murakhovskytold Reuters: "It all depends on France."    At a meeting in Paris last January French and Sovietforeign trade ministers said they were committed to increasedefforts to reduce the deficit.
 Estimates at the time showed aFrench 190 mln franc surplus for December 1986.    Murakhovsky said the Soviet Union was prepared to talk withanybody with "interesting" proposals offering latest technologyand assuring "a mutual advantage."    He said the Soviet Union had many tasks ahead of it andwould deal rapidly with proposals it considered interesting.
    He encouraged companies to take advantage of new lawsguaranteeing "the interests of foreign partners" in jointventures.    But he said no agreements had yet been finalised under thenew joint venture laws.    He said concrete deals had not yet been finalised as aresult of a one billion dollar accord signed in Moscow lastmonth with French businessman Jean-Baptiste Doumeng.
    He said Doumeng's Interagra company was preparing proposalsfor further examination by the Soviet Union. Doumeng last monthsaid the agreement was to exchange one billion dollars worth ofgoods.    Murakhovsky said the agreement was one of intent, anddesigned primarily to renew and increase the Soviet Union'sfood production capacity.
 Reuter