CANADA LEADERS FAIL TO SET PACT ON FREE TRADE
Prime Minister Brian Mulroney said heheld "frank" discussions with the Canadian province premiers onthe pace of free trade talks with the United States, but thelongstanding issue of provincial ratification remains to besettled.    Speaking to reporters after nearly five hours of meetingswith the 10 premiers, Mulroney said further discussions wouldbe held in June and September to discuss the role of theprovinces in approving any new trade deal.    But he maintained progress was being made in the sweepingtalks with the Unites States that got under nearly two yearsago.
    "It appears reasonable progress is being made (in thetalks)," Mulroney said.    Alberta Premier Don Getty agreed, "Things are running prettyquickly now."    The talks, launched by Mulroney's Progressive Conservativegovernment after concerns about protectionist sentiment in theU.S., are aimed reducing the remaining barriers between theworld's largest trading partnership.
    But the provinces are expected to play a major role in anynew trading arrangement, and some of the provincial leaderscomplained of a lack of progress on reaching a ratificationformula.    "It's my view that we should be thinking about these thingsright now, along with the questions of the substance of theagreement," commented Ontario Premier David Peterson, who hasbeen highly critical of the talks in the past.    But Newfoundland Premier Brian Peckford said an agreementwas more likely to emerge by consensus and there would be noneed for a "hard and fast formula.
"    Peckford said it appears Canada is prepared to makeconcessions to the United States on financial services in orderto make inroads on other bargaining areas, such as agriculture.    Canadian published reports, quoting government sources, saythe two countries are close to reaching a trade deal and itwill involve eliminating border tariffs and many non-tariffbarriers over the next 10 to 12 years.    A rough draft of the accord is expected to be presented tothe premiers at the June meeting while the finished document ishoped to be presented to Congress in October.
    "It's a very tight time frame," Ontario's Peterson said lastnight. "But at this moment it is tough to say what willtranspire." Reuter