U.S. HOUSE PANEL APPROVES TRADE BILL
The House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee unanimously approved a toned-down version oflegislation designed to toughen U.S. trade laws and wedge openforeign markets to more U.S. goods.    The measure now goes to the full House Ways and MeansCommittee next week, but major changes are not expected,congressional sources said.    "This product could very well be toughening our trade policyand doing it in a manner that opens markets without thisfrightening word 'protectionism'," Ways and Means chairman DanRostenkowski, an Illinois Democrat said.
    The trade subcommittee backed away from mandating specificretaliation against foreign countries for unfair foreign tradepractices as the House had approved in a trade bill last year.    But it held over for the full Ways and Means Committeedebate on a controversial plan by Rep. Richard Gephardt tomandate a reduction in trade surpluses with the U.S. bycountries such as Japan, South Korea and Taiwan.
    Gephardt, a Missouri Democrat, has not decided the exactform of his amendment, an aide said. Last year the Houseapproved his idea to force an annual ten pct trade surplus cutby those countries.     The trade bill will be wrapped in with legislation fromother committees dealing with relaxation of export controls,incentives for research, expanded worker training and educationand other efforts to increase U.S. competitiveness.
    The comprehensive trade bill is to be considered by thefull House in late April and then will be considered by Senatecommittees.    It requires President Reagan to retaliate against foreignunfair trade practices but do not mandate quotas or tariffs andallow an exemption if U.S. economic security would be harmed byU.S. actions against other countries.    The bill would make it easier for U.S. industries to winrelief from surges of imports of competitive products.
    It extends until January 1993, the administration'sauthority to negotiate trade agreements as part of the newround of multilateral talks under the General Agreements onTariffs and Trade.    And, it includes provisions to tighten trade rules oncopyrights, patents and telecommunications goods. Reuter