TRADE BILL TO CHANGE AGRICULTURE TRADE LAWS
The House Ways and Means Committeeis moving toward passage of a trade bill that sponsors said wasintended to help open foreign markets to U.S. agriculturalgoods and to modify some U.S. agricultural trade laws.    The trade subcommittee voted to require President Reagan totake into account the potential harm to U.S. agriculturalexports of any trade retaliation he might impose for foreignunfair trade practices against other domestic industries.    The bill would allow U.S. agricultural producers to seekgovernment monitoring of imports if there is a reasonablechance the industry would be harmed by an import surge.
    The full Ways and Means Committee is to consider the billnext week and congressional sources said they expect it will beapproved.     In investigations involving a processed agriculturalproduct, trade associations of processors or producers wouldhave to petition for relief from foreign dumping or unfairduties.     The bill sets out U.S. trade negotiating objectives forthe Uruguay round of talks under the General Agreement onTariffs and Trade.
 It would seek fair trade in agriculture,seek to discipline restrictive or trade distorting import andexport practices, to eliminate tariffs, subsidies, quotas andnon-tariff barriers.     President Reagan's authority to negotiate a new GATTagreement would be extended through January 1993 and authorityto negotiate a free trade zone with Canada would be extendedthrough January 3, 1991.    The bill extends Reagan's authority to negotiate aninternational coffee agreement through October 31, 1989.
    It allows a refund of import duties paid on raw sugarimported from November 1, 1977 to March 31, 1985 for productionof sugar or products containing sugar and destined forre-export. The export of the sugar or products must occurbefore Octoer 1, 1991.    Presently, to qualify for the refund the sugar must beprocessed within three years after import and exported withinfive years.
    Agriculture would also benefit from more rapid decisions incomplaints of unfair foreign trade practices or injury fromimports. Reuter