TENSE TRADE TIES TO DOMINATE EC TALKS
Tense trade relations with the U.S.And Japan and concern about the foreign impact of a proposedEuropean Community (EC) tax on edible oils and fats areexpected to dominate talks by EC foreign ministers heretomorrow.    EC diplomats said Britain demanded the early debate on theEC Executive Commission's proposal to impose a hefty tax ondomestic and imported oils and fats in an attempt to head off aproposal it sees as extremely damaging to EC foreign relations.    The proposal was the most controversial part of a reformpackage, due to be discussed by EC farm ministers later thismonth, of the EC's Common Agricultural Policy -- widely seen asthe root cause of the EC's persistent financial problems and oftensions with major trading partners.
    The proposal is described by its promoters as astabilisation program which would penalise a new sector goinginto massive overproduction and complement proposals to cutcereals and dairy production, rather than a straight forwardtax.    They say it would not only curb the growth of oils and fatsproduction and prevent imports from filling any vaccum left bya fall in EC output, but would also save the EC some twobillion European Currency Units, over two billion dlrs, in farmcosts.    It has provoked strong protests from domestic producers aswell as foreign exporters, led by the United States.
    The diplomats said the protests had been received from mostcorners of the developing and developed world, ranging fromSenegal, Malaysia and Indonesia, to Brazil, Argentina, Canada,Iceland and Norway.    The proposal had little chance of approval by ECgovernments, with West Germany as strongly opposed to it asBritain, and Denmark, the Netherlands and Portugal alsounconvinced of its political or economic wisdom.    Even Mediterranean countries such as Italy, France andGreece, which backed similar proposals in the past, did notseem as enthusiastic now because olive oil had been added tothe list of products affected.
    But the diplomats said a protectionist lobby in the U.S.And elsewhere was using the proposal as an excuse to promoteanti-EC action, and the foreign ministers' debate shoulddemonstrate the strength of feeling against the proposal withinthe EC and deprive its oponents of this argument.    The ministers were also due to discuss proposals in theU.S. Congress for a range of protecionist legislation such as abill that would curb EC textile exports.    The diplomats said the ministers were expected to stronglyback a Commission warning to Washington that such a bill, ifenacted, would provoke swift EC retaliation.
 REUTER