U.K. AND GERMANY LEAD ATTACK ON EC FARM REFORMS
Britain and West Germany told theirEuropean Community partners they would strongly oppose majorelements of proposals to rid the EC of its farm surpluses.    At a meeting of EC foreign ministers, Britain called for afull debate on a proposed tax on edible oils and fats that hasalready angered EC consumer groups and unleashed Washington-ledprotests from exporters to the EC, diplomats said.    West Germany, also opposed to the oils and fats tax, willadvise the meeting formally later today it cannot countenanceother proposals that could hit German farmers, they added.
    They said West Germany's objections were put in a letterthis weekend from Chancellor Helmut Kohl to Jacques Delors, thepresident of the EC's Executive Commission which had putforward the proposals last month in a bid to avoid a new ECcash crisis.    Kohl reiterated German objections to proposed cerealsproduction curbs but reserved his harshest criticism for aproposed dismantling of Monetary Compensatory Amounts (MCAs) -a system of cross-border subsidies and taxes which level outforeign exchange fluctuations for farm exports.    Kohl made clear the dismantling would mainly hit Germanfarmers who, without MCAs, would find it much more difficult toexport to weaker currency states, which means virtually allother 11 EC states, diplomats said.
    Britain initiated the discussion on the proposal to imposea hefty tax on domestic and imported oils and fats because itcould seriously damage EC trade relations.    The diplomats said the United States had been the mostoutspoken among foreign critics of the proposal, describing itas a breach of the EC's obligations under the world trade bodyGATT.    But protests had also come from other exporters to the EC,such as Senegal, Malaysia, Indonesia, Brazil, Argentina,Iceland and Norway, they added.    Britain has often lined up against West Germany on the farmreform issue in the past but is keen to avoid measures thatcould spark a damaging trade war with the U.S.    Foreign ministers were unlikely to take a decision oneither the oils and fats tax or the MCA proposals today,diplomats said.
 But their discussion should make clear thatneither has a chance of surviving when it comes up forsubstantive consideration by EC farm ministers later thismonth, they added. REUTER