TRADE INTERESTS READY FOR FIGHT IN U.S. CONGRESS
U.S. lawmakers are gearing up for ashowdown between protectionists and free traders as a majortrade bill winds its way through committees to a vote by thefull House of Representatives in late April.    In a move to toughen U.S. enforcement of trade laws, a keyHouse subcommittee last week approved a toned down version oflegislation to require President Reagan to retaliate againstforeign countries that follow unfair trade practices.    This bill will be the cornerstone of congressional effortsto restore competitiveness of American industries and turnaround last year's record 169 billion dlrs trade deficit.
    Several lawmakers have argued the new trade bill made toomany concessions to Reagan and said they intend to backamendments to "get tough" with countries that violate tradeagreements or keep out U.S. products.     On the other hand, congressmen known for their allegianceto free trade, said the bill ties Reagan's hands too much intrade disputes and they will seek to restore his negotiatingpowers.    Republican Bill Frenzel of Michigan said the subcommittee'sbill was not one "that a free trader like me could endorse inall respects," but he emphasized there was a consensus amongtrade lawmakers to work toward a bill Reagan and Republicanswould ultimately endorse.
    Frenzel said the goal of trade legislation was, "to make ourtrade policy stronger without violating our international tradeagreements. You'll find a lot of people who think we have notdone the former enough. You'll find poeple who think we haven'tavoided violating agreements.
"    In a key concession made at the urging of the powerfulchairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, the tradesubcommittee backed off a requirement that would have forcedReagan to automatically impose quotas or tariffs on importsfrom countries that engage in unfair trade practices.    It also agreed he may waive any retaliation if it wouldhurt the U.S. economy.    Ways and Means chairman Dan Rostenkowski, an IllinoisDemocrat, insisted the more moderate approach was necessary ifthe House wanted to pass a bill Reagan would sign into law.
    Reagan last year had blocked Senate consideration of atough House trade bill he branded as protectionist and thisyear only reluctantly agreed to support a trade bill when hesaw Democratic leaders were determined to pass a bill.    As an indication of his success, White House spokesmanMarlin Fitzwater told reporters Friday the administration stilldid not like some provisions. But he added, "Generally we feelvery good about the bipartisan consideration of the tradelegislation.
 I think we are progressing very well."    The first battle will take place next week when the fullHouse Ways and Means Committee considers an amendment by Rep.Richard Gephardt, a Missouri Democrat, to force countries suchas Japan, South Korea and Taiwan to cut their trade surpluseswith the United States.
    The subcommittee limited the Gephardt plan to provide onlythat the existence of a large trade surplus with the UnitedStates will trigger an investigation of unfair trade practices,but would not automatically set off retaliation.    Rep. Phil Crane, an Illinois Republican and staunch freetrader, said he will try to further weaken the Gephardt plan.
    Organized labor has pressed lawmakers for more relief fromimports where jobs have been lost to foreign competition.AFL-CIO president Lane Kirkland this year angered theadministration in a statement that any trade bill Reagan wouldsign would not be worth passage in Congress.    But Rostenkowski set the tone of the trade debate in astatement, "I'm not trying to write legislation to please LaneKirkland.
 I'm trying to write legislation that will be signedby the president."    In writing the bill, the subcommittee rejected calls fortrade relief for specific industries such as textiles.    Rep.
 Ed Jenkins, a Democrat from Georgia, agreed to holdoff his fight. He intends to push separately a bill to protectthe domestic textile and shoe industry, an aide said. Reaganvetoed a similar measure last year.
    House Speaker Jim Wright, a Texas Democrat, is one of themost influential proponents of aid for specific industriesbeset by low priced foreign competition.    Wright Thursday renewed his call for import relief for thedomestic oil industry and announced his support for a Senateplan to trigger a temporary oil import tariff when importsreach half of domestic consumption.    For the most part, the trade bill's provisions toughen U.S.enforcement of trade laws.
 The bill forces the administrationto act rapidly on complaints of unfair trade practices such asdumping products in the United States at prices below the costof production.    It also forces the administration to act rapidly when anindustry complains that a surge in imports threatens itsexistence. Congressmen said the change would have required theU.S. International Trade Commission to impose limits on carimports in 1981.
 Reuter