BRAZIL SAYS DEBT CRISIS IS WORLD PROBLEM
Brazilian Finance MinisterDilson Funaro said his country's foreign debt crisis could onlybe solved by changes in the international financial system.    Speaking to a business conference he said "It is not Brazilthat has to make adjustments with the IMF (InternationalMonetary Fund). It is the international financial communitythat is taking away resources from the developing countries.
"    "The crisis is not in Brazil, a country that has had thethird biggest trade surplus ...
In the past two years Brazil hadremitted 24 billion dlrs in debt servicing and received onlytwo billion in fresh funds," he added.    Funaro said that during his recent trip to the U.S., Europeand Japan to explain Brazil's decision last month to suspendinterest payments on 68 billion dlrs of commercial debt, hestressed the country's commitment to growth.    "We need to and will make the effort (to solve the debtproblem) but we cannot make an effort that means we stopgrowing," he said, adding that political and not purelycommercial solutions were needed to the debt crisis.
    Brazil, whose 108 billion dlr foreign debt is the largestin the developing world, has been under pressure from officialand private creditors to work out an economic adjustmentprogram with the IMF to combat rocketing inflation and foreignpayments problems.    President Jose Sarney's government has repeatedly refusedto approach the Fund, arguing that an IMF programme would leadto recession. Funaro said that in his talks with creditors hehad tried to restore credibility in the country in the hope offinding a lasting solution to the debt problem.
    "We are negotiating so that the debt question should not beone of continuous crisis."    To sustain internal growth Brazil would have to import moremachinery and equipment this year and export fewer rawmaterials. The country was thus targetting a fall in thisyear's trade surplus to 8.
0 billion dlrs from 1986's 9.5billion.    Domestically, Funaro said economies had led to a reductionin the public sector deficit to 2.
7 pct of gross domesticproduct in 1986, the lowest for many years and that this shouldfall to 1.5 pct this year. REUTER