CANADA'S MULRONEY SAYS U.S. TRADE DEAL NEARS
Prime Minister Brian Mulroney said"significant progress" was being made in trade talks with theUnited States and a profile of a major deal was emerging.    Opening a debate on free trade in the House of Commons,Mulroney said an accord would create thousands of jobs inCanada and bring greater economic prosperity to both countries.    Mulroney, who offered few new details of the talks, saidthat while the negotiations were risky and difficult, "aprofile of a major trade deal is now emerging.
"  In a 50-minute address, Mulroney made an often passionatedefense of the initiative that he said would give poorer areasof the country a major economic boost.    "Because of our trading patterns over a period of decades,we are in the process of building two Canadas -- one that isrich and promising, one that is under-developed andunder-employed," said Mulroney.    "What we want is to make sure Newfoundlanders and BritishColumbians and Albertans and others, that they get theirchance.
 They must be given the opportunity to trade their wayto prosperity."    Few detials have been released on the trade talks whichwere launched nearly two years ago between the two nations thatare each others most important trading partners.    Recent published reports in Canada, quoting senior tradesources, said the countries were close to reaching a trade dealand it will involve eliminating border trariffs and manynon-tariff barriers over the next 10 to 12 years.
    It has been reported a key stumbling block in the talks isa Canadian proposal to find a new way to settle trade disputes,something that would give Canada protection from Washington'stough trade remedy laws.    But Mulroney, sharply critical of protectionist sentimentin the U.S, said Canada was a "fair trader" and denied thegovernment was pursuing the deal to win unfair access to theAmerican market.    He said a trade deal must bring benefits to both sides.
    "We recognize a good deal must be a fair deal, one that isfair to both sides," Mulroney said. Reuter