NORWAY APPROVES TRADE BAN AGAINST SOUTH AFRICA
Norway's parliament has approved anextensive trade ban against South Africa but left shipowners akey loophole through which controversial oil shipments onNorwegian tankers may continue, government officials said.    The unilateral boycott, proposed by Norway's minorityLabour government, gives domestic companies until lateSeptember to cut remaining trade ties with South Africa andNamibia.    "The legislation discussed today must not be seen as anisolated measure, but as a step in an international process,"Norway's foreign minister Thorvald Stoltenberg told parliament.
    Government officials said they hope the move will intensifyinternational pressure against the Pretoria regime's apartheidpolicies. Sweden, in a similar move last week, promised to haltall trade with South Africa by October.    Norway's boycott, although forbidding crude oil shipmentsto South Africa on Norwegian-owned tankers, makes an importantexception for ships whose final destination is decided whilethey are at sea.
    Oil cargoes are often resold by trades after loading,making it difficult for shipowners to know their ships' finalport at the start of a voyage.    Critics said the bill leaves the door open for continuedoil shipments to South Africa. They called for strictersanctions to stop all Norwegian shipping to South Africa.
    Norwegian tankers supplied South Africa with about 30 pctof its crude imports during the early 1980s, but the trade hasdropped sharply to just one cargo in the last three months,trade ministry officials said.    The latest trade figures show Norwegian imports from SouthAfrica dropped 36 pct to 160 mln crowns during the first eightmonths of 1986, while exports plunged 52 pct to 265 mln crownsfrom the year-ago figure.    "Many would say that the law has already had its effectbecause of the dramatic drop in trade between South African andNorway," Foreign Ministry spokesman Per Paust told Reuters.
    "Norwegian business at an early stage started restructuringits relations with South Africa in anticipation of the law.    "No one has said the boycott will have a profound effect oninternational trade with South Africa, but it is an importantpolitical statement by the Norwegian government," he said.    The Oslo government said it will review the effects of theban on Norwegian industry after two years and may proposeamendments if industry can show it is hurt by the law.
    Norwegian imports from South Africa are limited mainly tohigh-grade manganese and coppernickle ores used in itferro-alloys and light metals industries.    Metals manufacturers estimate some 2,000 jobs could beaffected by the boycott is suitable replacements for these oresare not found.    The legislation now goes on to the upper house for formalratification later this week, parliamentarians said.
 Reuter