TRADE INTERESTS READY FOR BATTLE IN U.S. HOUSE
U.S. lawmakers are gearing up for ashowdown between protectionists and free traders as a majortrade bill winds its way through committees to a vote by thefull House of Representatives in late April.    In a move to toughen U.S. enforcement of trade laws, a keyHouse subcommittee last week approved a toned-down version oflegislation to require President Reagan to retaliate againstforeign countries that follow unfair trade practices.    The bill will be the cornerstone of congressional effortsto restore competitiveness of American industries and turnaround last year's record 169 billion dlrs trade deficit.
    Generally, the bill's provisions toughen U.S. enforcementof trade laws.    The trade bill forces the administration to act rapidly oncomplaints of unfair trade practices, such as dumping productsin the United States at prices below cost of production. Italso forces the administration to act rapidly when an industrycomplains that a surge in imports threatens its existence.
    In writing the bill, the subcommittee rejected calls fortrade relief for specific industries such as textiles.    Several lawmakers have argued the new trade bill made toomany concessions to Reagan and said they intend to backamendments to "get tough" with countries that violate tradeagreements or keep out U.S. products.    But congressmen known for their allegiance to free tradesaid the bill ties Reagan's hands too much in trade disputesand they will seek to restore his negotiating powers.
    Bill Frenzel, R-MI., said the subcommittee's bill was notone "that a free trader like me could endorse in all respects,"but he emphasized there was a consensus among lawmakers to worktoward a bill Reagan and Republicans would ultimately endorse.    The goal of trade legislation was "to make our trade policystronger without violating our international trade agreements,"he said.    In a key concession made at the urging of Ways and MeansCommittee chairman Dan Rostenkowski, D-IL., the tradesubcommittee backed off a requirement that would have forcedReagan to impose automatically quotas or tariffs on importsfrom countries that engage in unfair trade practices.
    It also agreed the president may waive any retaliation ifit would hurt the U.S. economy.    Rostenkowski insisted the more moderate approach wasnecessary if the House wanted to pass a bill Reagan would signinto law.    Reagan last year blocked Senate consideration of a toughHouse trade bill he branded as protectionist and this year heonly reluctantly agreed to support a trade bill when he sawDemocratic leaders were determined to pass such legislation.
    White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater told reporters latelast week that the administration still did not like some ofthe bill's provisions, but he added, "Generally we feel verygood about the bipartisan consideration of the tradelegislation. I think we are progressing very well."    The first battle will take place next week when the fullHouse Ways and Means Committee considers an amendment by Rep.
Richard Gephardt, D-MO., to force countries like Japan, SouthKorea and Taiwan to cut their trade surpluses with the U.S.    The subcommittee limited the Gephardt plan to provide onlythat the existence of a large trade surplus with the UnitedStates will trigger an investigation of unfair trade practices,but would not automatically set off retaliation.    Organized labor has pressed lawmakers for more relief fromimports where jobs have been lost to foreign competition.    AFL-CIO president Lane Kirkland this year angered theadministration when he said any trade bill Reagan would signwould not be worth passage in Congress.
    But Rostenkowski set the tone of the trade debate bysaying, "I'm not trying to write legislation to please LaneKirkland. I'm trying to write legislation that will be signedby the president."    Rep.
 Ed Jenkins (D-GA.) intends to push separately a billto protect the domestic textile and shoe industry, an aidesaid. Reagan vetoed a similar measure last year.    House Speaker Jim Wright of Texas, one of the mostinfluential proponents of aid for specific industries beset bylow-priced foreign competition, last week renewed his call forimport relief for the domestic oil industry and announced hissupport for a Senate plan to trigger a temporary oil importtariff when imports reach half of domestic consumption.
 Reuter