ETHIOPIA MINISTER SEES AFRICA DEBT PAYMENT PROBLEM
Africa may have to follow Brazil inhalting foreign debt payments unless industrialised nations areprepared to be more flexible in trade and economic policy,Ethiopian trade minister Tesfay Dinka said.    Growing protectionism and declining commodity prices hadcaused a major deterioration in the export earnings of alldeveloping countries, he said in an opening speech to a meetingof African trade ministers in Addis Ababa.    Unless there was an early improvement in developingcountries' terms of trade "the only choice is to follow theroute that Brazil appears to have taken," Tesfay said.
   The two-day meeting of delegates from 50 African states wascalled to work out a consensus ahead of the Group of 77ministerial meeting in Havana next month, when the developingcountries will debate their strategy in economic negotiationswith the West.    Tesfay accused the West of intransigence in the negotiationof recent commodity agreements.    The failure of the International Coffee Organisation toagree on the reintroduction of export quotas would mean "severalAfrican countries will not have the foreign exchange to importessential items," he said.
    Coffee accounts for 60 pct of Ethiopian exports and therecent fall in world coffee prices has sharply reduced thecountry's foreign exchange earnings.    Adebayo Adedeji, the executive secretary of the U.N.Economic Commission for Africa, told the meeting that there wasan increasing net outflow of resources from Africa.    He blamed this on high interest rates, debt servicing andthe repatriation of profits by foreign investors.
    Africa paid 13 billion dlrs to service its total foreigndebt last year and by 1990 annual service payments are expectedto rise to between 16 and 24 billion, Adedeji said.    He accused industrialised countries of failing to providemore resources to implement the U.N. Program for Africa'seconomic recovery and development, despite Africa's willingnessto raise two thirds of the capital from domestic sources.    The U.N. Program, approved last year, calls for 128 billiondlrs of economic investment in Africa over five years.
    Western donors were asked to contribute 46 billion dlrs,with the rest being raised from local resources, but Adedejisaid the donors had not responded as hoped.   In view of this poor response, he said "it is possible thatby the year 2,000 nearly all African countries, except a few,will be categorised as least developed countries."    At present, 27 of Africa's 50-odd states are officiallylisted in this category.
 REUTER