EC WARNS U.S. AND JAPAN ON TRADE TENSIONS
The European Community (EC) deliveredwarnings to both Japan and the United States over tradefrictions which have hit relations between the Community andits main trading partners.    EC foreign ministers meeting here issued a statementdeploring Japan's continued trade imbalance and appealed forgreater effort by the country to open its markets.    Ministers also issued a statement saying they weredisturbed by moves in the U.S. to limit imports of textiles andwarned that the Community would react to any such moves.
    EC External Trade Commissioner, Willy De Clercq has alreadywritten to his U.S. counterpart, special U.S. TradeRepresentative Clayton Yeutter, outlining the EC's concerns.    The ministers' said they were "very disturbed" by the U.S.moves, adding, "the adoption of such measures would not fail tohave a negative effect on the process of multilateralnegotiations just started as well as on bilateral relations."    Any unilateral U.S. moves would leave the EC no option butto react according to the laws of the world trade body, theGeneral Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), they said.
    In a separate statement on Japan, the EC ministers saidthey "deplore the continued aggravation of the imbalance intrade ...
 (and) expect Japan to open up its market more."    The statement added that the EC continued to insist thatthe Japanese government must boost imports and stimulatedemand.    Ministers also called on the European Commission to preparea report on U.S.-Japanese trade for July this year to enablethem to take action where necessary.
    One diplomat said the call for a report showed ministerswere determined not to let the Japanese question drop. "It wilbe back on the table again and again," the diplomat said.    De Clercq told journalists, "There is a certain nervousness,a growing impatience within the Community on trade relationswith Japan.
"    But diplomats said the Community is keen to continuetalking with Tokyo to try and solve the problem rather thanembark on a costly and damaging trade war. Reuter