JAPAN SAYS U.S.-JAPAN MICROCHIP PACT WORKING
Japanese officials sought to convince theU.S. That a U.S.-Japan pact on microchip trade is working aheadof an April 1 deadline set by the U.S. For them to prove theircase.    "We are implementing the agreement in good faith and thesituation does not run counter to the pact," Osamu Watanabe,Director of the Ministry of International Trade and Industry's(MITI) Americas and Oceanic Division, told foreign reporters.    "The effects of the measures we have taken and are takingare emerging in the market place," he said.
    U.S. Trade officials have repeatedly accused Japanesemicrochip makers of violating the pact by continuing to sell atbelow cost in markets outside Japan and the United States.    The agreement, signed last September, aimed at haltingpredatory Japanese pricing policies and increasing U.S.Semiconductor firms' access to the Japanese market.    The comments by MITI officials followed a call by PrimeMinsiter Yasuhiro Nakasone to clear up any misunderstandings onthe U.S. Side about the pact, Watanabe said.
    Yukio Honda, director of MITI's Industrial ElectronicsDivision, denied that Japanese chipmakers were selling at belowcost in third countries.    MITI's call to Japanese chip makers last month to cutproduction of key memory chips in the first quarter of thisyear has begun to dry up the source of cheap chips for sale inthe non-regulated grey market, Honda said.    "The grey market exports from Japan are shrinking now, butin contrast U.S. And South Korean companies are expandingmarket share because of their cheaper prices," Honda said.
    MITI plans to take further steps to reduce the excesssupply of inexpensive chips which developed in Japan after thepact was formed because of a slump in Japanese semiconductorexports to the United States, he added.    The ministry will soon release its supply-demand guidelinesfor the second quarter and suggested production volumes arelikely to be lower than that for the first quarter, he said.    Despite businessmen's ingenuity in finding ways around anyartificial controls, regulation of supply and demand shouldbring positive results, Watanabe said.
 "I am optimistic," headded. REUTER