EC WARNS U.S. AND JAPAN ON TRADE TENSIONS
The European Community (EC) yesterdaywarned Japan and the United States, its main trading partners,that friction over trade issues is affecting the EC's relationswith both countries.    EC foreign ministers issued a statement deploring Japan'scontinued trade imbalance and appealed for the country to makea greater effort to open up its markets. They also said theywere disturbed by a draft bill before the U.S. Congress thatwould impose permanent quotas on textile imports and wereprepared to react.
 The U.S. Administration has alreadydistanced itself from the bill.    EC External Trade Commissioner Willy De Clercq has writtento his U.S. Counterpart, Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter,outlining the EC's concerns.    The statement said ministers were very disturbed by U.S.Moves towards protectionism.
 "The adoption of such measureswould not fail to have a negative effect on the process ofmultilateral negotiations just started, as well as on bilateralrelations," it said.    Any unilateral U.S. Moves would leave the EC no option butto react according to the laws of the General Agreement onTariffs and Trade, it said.    In a separate statement on Japan, the EC ministers saidthey "deplore the continued aggravation of the imbalance intrade (and) expect Japan to open up its market more.
"    The statement said the EC would continue to insist thatJapan boost imports and stimulate domestic demand.    Ministers also called on the EC Commission to prepare areport on U.S.-Japanese trade for July this year to enable themto take appropriate action where necessary.    One diplomat said the call for a report showed ministerswere determined not to let the Japanese question drop.
 "It willbe back on the table again and again," the diplomat said.    De Clercq, talking to journalists during the meeting, said,"There is a certain nervousness, a growing impatience within theCommunity concerning trade relations with Japan."    But diplomats said the EC is keen to negotiate with Tokyoto solve the problem rather than embark on a costly anddamaging trade war, and the ministers called for morecooperation with Japan in industry and research.
 Reuter