EC WARNS CONGRESS ON NEW TRADE BILL
The European Community (EC) haswarned the U.S. House of Representatives that tough tradelegislation it is considering could prompt retaliation by U.S.trading partners.    The warning was sent in a letter from Sir Roy Denman, headof the EC delegation in Washington, to Dan Rostenkowski,chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee.    A copy of the letter was made available to Reuters.
    Denman told Rostenkowski, an Illinois Democrat, he backedaspects of the bill, such as one backing new talks under theGATT and one excluding protection for the textile industry.    But Denman disagreed with other provisions which wouldrequire President Reagan to take retaliatory trade actionagainst nations with large trade surpluses with the U.S. andwould set new standards for judging unfair foreign tradepractices.    Denman told Rostenkowski that GATT regulations prohibitmember nations from taking unilateral retaliatory action intrade disputes unless the action is GATT-approved.
    He said "If the Congress makes retaliatory action mandatory,then the United States would be in violation of itsinternational legal obligations and on a collision course withits major trading partners."    Denman added that a president should have flexibility inenforcing trade laws, saying "in the last resort, anyadministration must take its decision in light of the overallnational interest."    Otherwise, he said, "the risk would be counter-reaction bytrading partners of the United States, i.
e., retaliation orenactment of mirror image legislation to be employed againstimports from the United States."    Denman also said Congress could prompt retaliation if itreduced the threshhold of unfair trade by making it easier forfirms to file unfair trade practice claims.
    Retaliation could also be prompted by relaxing standardsfor findings that imports were injuring U.S. firms.    "Changes in these standards must be agreed uponmultilaterally. They cannot be imposed by the United Statesalone on the world trading system," he said.
    House leaders have rejected a plan by textile-statelegislators to add to the trade bill a provision to curbimports of cloth and clothing, similar to a measure passed twoyears ago but vetoed by President Reagan.    There was concern by the leaders that Reagan would veto theentire trade bill because of the textile amendment.    Reuter