U.S. HOUSE PANEL VOTES TO EASE EXPORT CONTROLS
A key House panel voted to greatlyease government controls on exports as several House committeesmoved rapidly toward approval of major changes in trade lawsthey hope will help solve U.S. trade woes.    The House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on InternationalEconomic Policy voted to direct the administration to cut thelist of controlled exports by 40 per cent by removing items nolonger considered important to U.S. military security.    Industries had complained they were losing sales to foreigncompetitors who were allowed to export freely products U.S.companies could not sell abroad.
    The issue has been the subject of administration debate.The Commerce Department had held that unnecessary restrictionsimpeded U.S. exports while the Defense Department said currentcontrols should be retained but better administered.    Four congressional panels met today to consider portions ofa wideranging trade bill that intends to help U.S. companiessell more products abroad and to fight unfair foreign tradepractices.
    Their separate proposals, some of them conflicting, will bewoven by House Democratic leaders into a final trade bill for avote by the full House in late April.    Sparked by the proposal of Fujitsu Ltd. to take controllinginterest in Schlumberger Ltd's Fairchild Semiconductor Corp.
,the House Energy and Commerce subcommittee on Commerce voted toexpand Reagan's authority to block foreign takeovers of U.S.companies.    Reagan would be able to block any takeover found to bedamaging to U.S. economic or national security interests.    "We are losing our semiconductors which are at the heart ofour national security," subcommittee chairman James Florio, aNew Jersey Democrat said.
    The subcommittee also called for the administration toconsider retaliation against Japan for its restrictivegovernment procurement practices.    The retaliation could be triggered by a requirement thatthe administration investigate whether U.S. companies weretreated unfairly and whether they have been barred from bids onlucrative public works projects such as the eight billion dlrKansai airport construction. U.S. firms have complained theywere not allowed to bid on its construction.
    At the urging of the U.S. recording industry, thesubcommittee agreed to bar imports of a new Japaneseproduct--digital audio recorders.    Meeting in closed session, the House Ways and MeansCommittee agreed to allow President Reagan to retaliate againstforeign countries that refuse to open their markets to U.S.telecommunications products.     Congressional aides said the committee also agreed U.S.companies would be allowed to press for relief from imports ofcounterfeit products made in violation of U.S. copyright andpatent laws.
                                          Reuter