ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - U.S. DEFICIT WITH NICs
The U.S. trade deficit with Taiwan andKorea is expected to widen this year, despite some economic andcurrency adjustments by the two newly industrialized countries,economists said.    "The surpluses that Taiwan and Korea ran with the U.S. in1986 will get bigger. This time next year, the U.S. will bescreaming at those countries about their exports," said SteveCerier of Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co.
    Taiwan is currently the third biggest exporter to the U.S.after Japan and Canada, while Korea is the seventh largest.    Faced with heightened protectionist sentiment in Congress,the Reagan administration has been stepping up the rhetoricagainst Taiwan and Korea, urging those countries to allow theircurrencies to appreciate and lift impediments to free trade.    The thrust has shifted to those newly industrializedcountries (NICs) amid signs the dollar's steep drop against thecurrencies of Japan and most EC nations -- previously the mainfocus of the U.S. drive to cut its trade gap -- is beginning toclose the competiveness gap for American goods.
    U.S. Treasury secretary James Baker said recently that heexpects a reduction in Japan's trade surplus this year.    But U.S. manufacturers still are losing markets on theirown doorstep to Taiwan and Korea, whose currencies have notrisen as much as the yen and the mark. As major beneficiariesof soft oil prices and with low labor costs, Taiwanese andKorean exporters are well-placed to take up the slack.
    "In 1986, the fashionable comment in Washington wasJapan-bashing. Now it's NIC-bashing," said Robert Chandross, ofLloyds Bank PLC.    Asia's four main NICs -- Hong Kong, South Korea, Singaporeand Taiwan -- accounted for almost one-fifth of the overall 170billion dlr U.S. merchandise trade deficit for 1986.    The U.S. trade gap with Taiwan rose to 15.
7 billion dlrs in1986 from 13.1 billion in 1985, while the bilateral tradedeficit with South Korea grew to 7.1 billion from 4.
8 billion.    And preliminary U.S. data show that the growth trend iscontinuing. The U.S. trade shortfall with Taiwan was 1.
6billion dlrs in January, up 24.4 pct from a year earlier. Thegap with Korea was 700 mln dlrs, up 24.
8 pct from a year ago.    Lately both nations have said they will take steps todefuse incipient trade tensions. Korea said it is choosing manyof the 122 items on which the U.S. wants it to cut importtariffs in order to deflect pressure for currency revaluation.
    Still, South Korean trade minister Rha Woong Bae said lastweek that Korea would maintain a trade surplus for three tofive years as a way to cut its 44.5 billion dlr foreign debt.    For its part, Taiwan said in January that it will cuttariffs on 1,700 goods sometime in the second half of 1987 andtry to diversify exports.
 But vice economic minister WangChien-Shien said last month that he still does not expectTaiwan's trade surplus with the U.S. will fall in 1987.    The NICs have made deep inroads into markets for textilesand electronic goods. But Korea is raising its profile in thearea of "big-ticket" manufactured goods, notably cars.
    Korea expects its auto exports -- mostly for North America-- to balloon to 675,000 units in 1987 from zero in 1985.    "The NICs' exports are almost all manufactured goods. Whentheir exports rise it hits the heart of the U.S. manufacturingbase.
 It cuts directly to us and to our customers," said BobWendt, manager for economic studies at Bethlehem Steel Corp.    The U.S. takes 90 pct of Korea's computer products exports,72 pct of its electrical appliances and 65 pct of itstelecommunications equipment.    A recent study by Morgan Guaranty Trust Co says Taiwan andSouth Korea are the most pressing trade issue for the U.S.    While Hong Kong and Singapore run trade surpluses with theU.S., these are offset by their deficits with other countries.
    But Taiwan and, to a lesser extent, South Korea, stand inmarked contrast. Both of these nations have moved rapidly intolarge bilateral surplus with the U.S. and major overrall tradeand current account surpluses, the Morgan study says.    Morgan expects Taiwan's overall trade surplus to grow to18.
5 billion dlrs in 1987 from 15.2 billion last year, andKorea's to increase to 6.5 billion dlrs from 3.
5 billion.    Concern about the NICs is not confined to the U.S.    "A lot of Korea and Taiwan's exports to the U.S. have beenat Japan's expense," said Richard Koss at General Motors Corp.    February's Paris meeting of six major industrial powersexorted NICs to lower trade barriers and revalue currencies.
    But this two-pronged approach has drawn little responsefrom the two nations so far and, in any case, will only workwith a sizeable lag, economists say.    The U.S. has not said how much it thinks the Taiwan's andKorea's currencies should climb. The Taiwan dollar, which ispegged to the U.S. dollar, has risen about 15 pct sinceSeptember 1985 while the Korean won has risen about five pct.
    But in real terms the Taiwan dollar has been flat againstthe U.S. unit and the won has lost seven pct, economists say.    "We've not seen any lessening of competition from thosecountries that we can attribute to currency changes," saidBethlehem Steel's Wendt.    And so far, U.S. pleas for Taiwan and Korea to use theirhefty export earnings to import more have had little effect.
    Moreover, it is uncertain how far U.S. protectionism willget given the administration's free-trade stance. "It's hard tosee that anything will be passed much before year-end. And thenthe question is, will it have teeth?" one economist said.
    Reuter