SPRINKEL URGES GREATER GROWTH IN JAPAN, EUROPE
Beryl Sprinkel, chairman ofthe president's council of economic advisors, said strongerdomestic demand growth in Japan and Western Europe is needed tohelp stimulate U.S. exports without having to rely on futherdollar declines.    "Stronger domestic demand growth in the major foreignindustrial countries is needed to engender the much neededexpansion of U.S. export markets without having to rely onfurther dollar depreciation," he told the Futures IndustryAssociation.    Sprinkel said the recent recovery of domestic demand inJapan and Europe has been one of the weakest in the post-warperiod.
    "Stronger domestic demand growth in the major industrialcountries would help give balance to the current worldrecovery," he said.    Asked if Japan was not living up to commitments made lastmonth to trading partners, he said recent figures showedJapan's economy grew by about 0.5 pct in the fourth quarter of1986, "Not enough to sustain employment growth.
"    However, Sprinkel said Japan had not reneged on its pledgesand was moving toward more stimulative policies, including taxreform. "I suspect there will be further moves," he said.    Sprinkel repeated his call for further cuts in U.S.government spending and for resistance to tax increases.
    "Reducing the federal government budget deficit byexpenditure restraint is needed to preserve the low marginaltax rates achieved by tax reform," he said, adding that "a voteto increase to government expenditures is a vote against taxreform."    Sprinkel said the fall of the dollar had substantiallyrestored U.S. cost competitiveness and that the deteriorationof the U.S. trade balance appeared to have abated.    However, he said that "sole reliance on dollar depreciationto reduce our trade deficit is not desirable," as it risksinflation in the United States and recession abroad.
    "I am confident that further improvements in our tradeperformance will contribute significantly to growth in 1987," hesaid. Improvements in the U.S. trade balance, he said, willcome about largely from a swing in manufactures trade andpresent "serious adjustment problems for U.S. trading partners."    Western Europe, where manufactures output and employmenthave been weak, promises to be especially hard hit by theimprovement in the U.S. trade balance, Sprinkel said.
    He defended flexible exchange rates saying wide swings inrates were not a fault of the system but of the undesirablepolicies that produced them. Reuter