JAPAN UNDER ATTACK OVER TRADE SURPLUS
Japan's economic policies face fierceinternational attack as hopes fade of a substantial drop in itstrade surplus, international monetary sources said.    At a meeting this week in Paris, senior governmentofficials from major nations are considering an Organisationfor Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) staff reportthat forecasts a continuing large Japanese trade surplus, theysaid.    Though Japanese exports have become more expensive with theyen's sharp rise against the dollar, they still tend to surgewhen growth picks up, according to the OECD.    As a solution, the OECD staff has urged Japan to redirectits export-driven economy, boosting domestic demand and importsby adopting a more flexible fiscal policy, they said.
    That recommendation echoes calls made recently at secretmeetings of the International Monetary Fund's executive board.    The monetary sources said Japan's policy was criticizedwhen the board met to consider the country's economy under theannual consultations it holds with each of its members.    The United States, which until recently has been reluctantto criticize Japan's fiscal stance, joined in the attack, hesaid.
    The IMF staff has also cast doubt on the Japanesegovernment's forecast of 3.5 pct economic growth in the fiscalyear beginning April 1. Most independent forecasters, includingthe IMF, believe that growth in calendar 1987 will be belowthree pct, monetary sources said.
    The Finance Ministry has been particularly sensitive tosuch criticism because it is already under mounting domesticpressure to boost an economy hard-hit by the yen's rise. Theyen's climb has lost exporters sales and profits in the hugeAmerican market.    Tokyo is also eager to avoid any suggestion that a furtheryen rise might be needed to cut its trade surplus, which lastyear amounted to a record 93 billion dlrs.
    Japan cannot tolerate a further rise of the yen, ForeignMinister Tadashi Kuranari said recently. The yen closed heretoday at 151.53 to the dollar.
 Most Japanese politicians,including Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa, are clearly hopingthe yen will weaken, government officials said.    At a meeting in Paris last month, Britain, Canada, France,Japan, the United States and West Germany, agreed to cooperateto hold currencies at around current levels.    Officials said that wording represented a compromise.
Miyazawa hopes the agreement will hold the yen stable for a fewmonths, before it weakens later in the year.    Japan wanted the Paris communique to imply a higher valuefor the dollar, perhaps by substituting the word "recent" for"current," while the United States wanted it to more clearlypoint to the dollar's weaker levels now, perhaps by use of theword "present," they said.    In the months leading up the February 22 agreement, thedollar dropped some 10 yen.
    The officials also sought to discredit suggestions in themarket that recent U.S. Action to prevent the dollar fromrising above 1.87 marks pointed to a 153 to 155 yen ceiling forthe U.S. Currency.    Japan has also attacked OECD forecasts, which it says donot take account of the structural changes in the Japaneseeconomy that will be triggered by the strong yen.
    Officials said there are already signs of that. More andmore companies have announced plans to move productionfacilities offshore to take advantage of cheaper costs abroad,they said. REUTER