EC AND COMECON ENDS TALKS WITH PROGRESS
The European Community (EC) andSoviet-led Comecon ended talks here, having made progress onsetting up formal trade relations, but no breakthrough becauseof Comecon's refusal to recognise West Berlin as part of theEC, delegates said.    Negotiators were trying to reach agreement on the draft ofa joint declaration setting up official relations after 30years of mutual non-recognition. John Maslen, head of the ECdelegation, told Reuters as he emerged from the final session:"We made some progress, but we have called for another meeting.
"    Officials, who asked not to be named, said the Comecon teamhad refused to accept a clause in the draft declaration whichwould recognise West Berlin as part of the 12-nation EC.    Under the 1957 Treaty of Rome all contracts and agreementssigned by the Community must contain this territorial clausestipulating West Berlin is an integral part of the EC. An ECnegotiator taking part in the three-day talks said: "We wantedthe territorial clause in, but Comecon said no."    A joint statement issued after the talks said progress wasmade towards clarifying positions, but another meeting would benecessary to complete the work.    Any decision in principle to set up relations would requireapproval by the Community's Council of Ministers and by theexecutive committee of Comecon.
    Zdzislaw Kuroski, deputy director of Comecon, who heads theEast bloc delegation, told Reuters ahead of today's session: "Wehave narrowed our differences on a range of questions, but noton all questions."    Asked whether Comecon would accept EC insistence that anyjoint declaration stipulate West Berlin as part of theCommunity, he replied: "This question is not contained in thedraft which our side presented."    West German diplomats said they would insist on includingthe clause on West Berlin in any EC-Comecon agreement.
    The talks followed an earlier round between the two tradingblocs here last September and the first-ever direct talksbetween the EC and the Soviet Union on establishing diplomaticrelations in January.    The EC trades with individual Comecon member states despitenon-recognition of Comecon. Last year, the EC had a fivebillion dlr trade deficit with East European states, about halfthe deficit of the previous year, due to a drop in the price ofSoviet oil imported by the EC. REUTER