CANADA'S CLARK SEES TRADE AS MOST URGENT PROBLEM
Trade is the most urgent problemfacing U.S.-Canadian relations because of a pressing need toreach a new bilateral pact within the coming months, Joe Clark,Canadian secretary of state for external affairs, said.    Negotiators for the two countries have been meeting formore than a year in an effort to work out an agreement.    "The most urgent problem now is the trade question becausethat has to be decided within the next 10 months," Clark toldthe Commonwealth Club of California.
 "We have a fast trackauthority from your Congress for approval or rejection ofwhatever the negotiators achieve."    Clark said that, as a practical matter, an initialagreement must be reached by late September or early October.    He listed environmental questions, particularly acid rain,and defense as the second and third most important bilateralissues facing Ottawa and Washington.
    On Wednesday, President Reagan announced that he will seek2.5 billion dlrs from Congress to address the acid rainproblem. Some interpreted the move as a goodwill gesture inadvance of his annual meeting, on April 5-6 in Ottawa, withPrime Minister Brian Mulroney.
    In a question-and-answer session with the public affairsgroup, Clark said that the two countries must find bettermechanisms for resolving their trade disputes.    "This rash of countervailing actions, where we acted oncorn and you acted on soft wood and we both said they werequasijudicial -- the dispute resolution mechanisims in placenow are not working adequately in either of our interests," hesaid.    Ottawa also is seeking to change some of Washington's ruleson government procurement that penalize Canadian businesses, hesaid.
    "There are a number of Canadian companies that, in order tosecure substantial contracts in the United States, have had tomove their head offices out of our country into your countrybecause you have national procurement requirements," he said.    In turn, he added, the United States would like to changesome of the procurement requirements that exist at theprovincial government level in Canada.    Clark declined to forecast the outcome of the discussions.
    "What will come out of it remains for the negotiators, inthe first instance, to propose, and then governments andcongresses will have judge," he said.    In his prepared remarks, Clark said that the United Stateshas tended to take Canada for granted, although it exports toits northern neighbor more than twice what it exports to Japan."Yet you bought almost 10 per cent more from Japan last yearthan you bought from Canada," he said.
 REUTER Reuter