U.S. SENATORS SAY SANCTIONS LIKELY ON MICROCHIPS
The United States will likely imposesanctions soon on imports of Japanese microchips, senators saidtoday after a private meeting with Commerce Secretary MalcolmBaldrige.    Although the senators said Baldrige told them no decisionwould be taken until a final determination is made on whetherJapanese microchips were dumped in the United States, they saidthey were virtually sure Japan would face penalties.    President Reagan's trade policy advisory group, of whichBaldrige is a member, will meet on the issue Wednesday.
    "I am confident we will see action taken," Sen. John McCain,an Arizona Republican, told reporters.    "I am expecting sanctions at least, and even more thansanctions," Sen.
 Pete Domenici, a New Mexico Republican, said.    The senators, several congressmen and U.S. semiconductorindustry representatives met with Baldrige and State Departmentofficials to discuss Japan's alleged violations of a September1986 agreement to stop dumping its microchips in the UnitedStates and other countries.    They recommended Japanese firms be penalized throughtariffs or import duties over the next six to 12 months forcontinuing to dump microchips.
 The violations were worth 100mln dls to the Japanese semiconductor industry, they said.    Asked if Baldrige intended to recommend sanctions, Sen.Pete Wilson told reporters, "The clear import of what he said isthat there will be.
"    "Japan can't just say they will comply. We think sanctionsmust be applied," for past violations of the agreement, theCalifornia Republican said.    The semiconductor industry produces microprocessor chipswhich are used in high technology products ranging from radiosto defence missile guidance systems.
    Sen. James McClure, an Idaho Republican, said Baldrige toldthem the administration had not made a final determination thatJapanese companies had dumped semiconductor microchips belowthe cost of production in the United States or other countries.    But McClure said senators told him, "There is no doubtdumping is going on," based on evidence such as invoices ofpurchases of the Japanese products.
    The two countries signed a pact last September in whichJapan agreed to stop selling its microchips in the UnitedStates and other countries below production costs and to allowthe U.S. semiconductor industry access to the Japanese market.    In return, the United States waived its right to imposeimport duties on the Japanese microchips.    Japanese officials have said they have lived up to the pactand have asked Japanese chip-makers to further slash output tosave the pact.
    Japan has frequently been the target of congressionaldiscouragement over last year's record 169-billion-dlr tradedeficit. Tokyo had a 59-billion-dlr surplus with the UnitedStates last year and had large surpluses with other countries.    The Senate yesterday unanimously passed a resolutioncalling for action against Japan for violations of the pactsince September.
 The resolution will be introduced in the Housenext week by Rep. Bob Matsui, a California Democrat. Reuter