YEUTTER SEES U.S., JAPAN VERGING ON TRADE CONFLICT
The United States and Japanare on the brink of serious conflict on trade, especially oversemiconductors, Japanese unwillingness for public bodies to buyU.S. Super-computers, and barriers to U.S. Firms seeking toparticipate in the eight billion dlr Kansai airport project,U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said.    He was talking to reporters yesterday on the eve of atwo-day meeting of trade ministers which will review progressmade by committees set up after the Uruguay meeting lastSeptember launched a new round of GATT (General Agreement onTariffs and Trade) talks.    European Community (EC) commissioner Willy de Clercqmeanwhile told reporters conflict between the world's threemajor trading and economic powers -- the EC, the U.S. And Japan-- set a poor example for other members of GATT.    Australian Trade Minister John Dawkins told the reportersbilateral retaliation at the enormous expense of the rest ofthe world was no way to solve trade disputes.
    New Zealand trade minister Mike Moore told his colleaguesgreat progress had been made in preparing for the current roundof GATT negotiations which must not be sidetracked.    The ministers have said they want to maintain the momentumtowards fresh negotiations or avert serious trade conflicts.    Yeutter said the problem with international trade talks wasthat they tended to get bogged down for years.
 "Countries don'tget very serious about negotiating until the end of the daywhich is, maybe, five or six years in the future."    He also said he did not consider the new U.S. Congress asprotectionist as it was 18 months ago. "That's a very healthydevelopment," he added.
"If you asked me about that a year or 18months ago I would have said that it was terriblyprotectionist."    "Members of Congress, that is the contemplative members ofCongress, have begun to realise protectionism is not the answerto the 170 billion dlr trade deficit," Yeutter said.    "They've also begun to realise that you cannot legislatesolutions to a 170 billion dollar trade deficit so they aremore realistic and, in my judgement, more responsible on thatissue than they were 12 or 18 months ago.
"    He added, "Whether that will be reflected in the legislationthat eventually emerges is another matter." REUTER