NEXT WORLD TRADE NEGOTIATIONS MUST SUCCEED - NZ
Ministers from more than 20nations were told by New Zealand that the next internationalnegotiations on liberalising trade would be the last thiscentury and the cost of failure could not be measured.    Trade minister Mike Moore told his colleagues at awelcoming ceremony before two days of talks here that greatprogress had been made in preparing for the negotiations whichmust not be sidetracked.    "We live in troubled and dangerous times for the worldtrading system," he said.
    "We have seen that the failure of the world trading systemhas caused great depression and conflict in the past. Ourfailure to maintain the momentum will be at great cost to usall," Moore said.   "The cost of failure is beyond calculation.
 It is our lasthope and best opportunity this century. We will not get anotherchance before the year 2000," he added.    The ministers are in New Zealand to review world tradesince the "Uruguay round" talks last September.
 The talks are also part of preparations for a full-scale June meeting of theGeneral Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) in Venice.    The Uruguay meeting is considered by most countries to havebeen particularly successful, with northern hemispherecountries managing to have service industries such as bankingand insurance included in the next full round.    The southerners' goal of including agricultural andtropical products also was met.
    The meeting at this North Island tourist resort isdescribed by participants as informal and no declaration isexpected.    Moore said one aim was to "instil a sense of politicalurgency to avert potential economic tragedy."    Another was to seek ways of popularising freer trade topeople who felt the pain of readjustment but could not see thebenefits, as well as preventing "bush fires of confrontationwhile we proceed with orderly negotiations.
"    The meeting is being attended by 25 overseas delegationsincluding representatives of GATT and the Economic Community.    The delegates include U.S. Trade Representative ClaytonYeutter.    American sources say he is ready to state that the best wayto reverse protectionist sentiment in the United States is toimplement four key Uruguay proposals:    -- an end to agricultural subsidies;    -- inclusion of trade in services and investments in GATTregulations;    -- tightening of restrictions on pirating of so-calledintellectual property such as trademarks, patents andcopyrights;    -- new rules to resolve trade disputes among GATT's 92member states.
    Earlier, New Zealand sources had said French Foreign TradeMinister Michel Noir had pulled out of the informal GATT talksfor domestic political reasons.    Cabinet chief Bernard Prauge will lead the Frenchdelegation. Reuter