JAPAN IN LAST DITCH EFFORT TO SAVE CHIP PACT
Japan has launched a last-ditch effort tosalvage its computer micro-chip pact with the United States -sending a letter to top American policy makers setting out itscase and instructing its producers to cut output further.    "We must make our utmost effort to ward off any catastrophe,"Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI) DeputyDirector General Masaji Yamamoto told reporters.    "If hasty action is taken in the United States, it willcreate very serious problems.
"    The Reagan Administration's Economic Policy is expected tomeet Thursday to review Japanese compliance with the bilateralagreement hammered out last year. Under the pact, Tokyo agreedto stop selling cut-price chips in world markets and toincrease its imports of American semiconductors.    Washington has accused Japan of reneging on the deal byselling low priced chips in Asia and by failing to boostAmerican imports, and has threatened to take retaliatoryaction.
    In an effort to save the agreement, MITI is asking Japanesechip makers to limit production in the hope that will boostdomestic demand and reduce the incentive to export.    Yamamoto said that Japan will slash output of 256 kilobitdynamic random access and erasable programmable read onlymemory chips by 11 pct in the second quarter. This follows acutback of more than 20 pct in the first three months of theyear.
    He said the cutbacks were already drying up the supply ofchips available for export through unregulated distributors inthe so-called grey market.    "We have almost no grey market," he said. "Supply isdiminishing.
"    To help ensure that the cutbacks are implemented, MITIcalled in the president of Japan's largest semiconductor maker,NEC Corp <NIPN.T> last week, he said. It is also issuingspecific instructions on production to the Japanese subsidiaryof <Texas Instruments Inc>.    Trade and Industry Minister Hajime Tamura spelled out thesteps Japan was taking to salvage the pact and appealed forU.S. Understanding in a letter to top American policy makers.
    The letter was sent today to U.S. Secretary of State GeorgeSchultz, Treasury Secretary James Baker, Commerce SecretaryMalcolm Baldrige and U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter.    The four, who make up the Economic Policy Council, areexpected to consider evidence presented by U.S. Chip makerMicron Technology Inc <DRAM.O> of cut-price Japanese sales inHong Kong.    Yamamoto admitted that <Oki Electric Industry Co>'s HongKong subsidiary had sold chips at an inappropriate level butdenied that it was dumping chips at rock-bottom prices.
    "If the United States uses this as proof of dumping...
Wewill present our rebuttal," he said.    The sales though were inappropriate in the light of MITI'sadvice to semiconductor makers to sell chips at well aboveproduction costs to avoid any hint of dumping, he said.    He also called the case "strange," but he stopped short ofendorsing Japanese newspaper accusations that Oki had beentrapped into making the sales.
 He did say though that Micronpublicized the invoice documenting the sales on the same daythey were made and that Oki was unable to locate the person whohad bought the chips when it tried to buy them back last week. Reuter