YEUTTER SEES GATT CONSENSUS ON FARM TRADE REFORM
U.S. Trade RepresentativeClayton Yeutter said trade ministers meeting here have reacheda general consensus on agricultural trade reform under thelatest Uruguay round of the General Agreement on Tariffs andTrade (GATT).    Yeutter gave no precise details of the understanding buttold journalists the consensus covers the principles involvedin agricultural trade reform and what needs to be done toimprove the global situation in agriculture.    Delegates from 22 countries are meeting informally todiscuss progress made since the latest GATT round was launchedin Punta del Este, Uruguay, last September.
    Yeutter said "at least people seem to be going down the sameroad...
But how that translates ultimately into negotiations isanother matter entirely."    There seems to be an understanding of the need to deal withthe problem quickly and "a more common understanding of how weare going to get from here to there," Yeutter said.    However, the hard work is still to come, with a couple ofyears of tough negotiations ahead, he said.
    "It is ludicrous for the nations of the world to ploughimmense amounts of financial resources into the production ofitems that nobody wants to buy," he said.    He said the long-term answer is to switch some of thefinancial resources now committed to agriculture to other moreproductive areas. This would help agriculture because some itsinefficient non-productive segments would stop operating, hesaid.
    Individual segments in many countries may lose in theprocess, but it should result in a more rational system ofworld-wide production within 10 or 15 years, he said.    It is important that the agriculture negotiations reach arelatively early conclusion because the U.S. Is spending 26billion dlrs a year and the European Community probably morethan that, which is an ineffective use of financial resources,he said.    Asked about the prospect of a priority for agriculture inthe negotiations, he said "one has to be politicallyrealistic.
.. If there is any chance of getting it (agriculturaltrade reform) done in two to three years it's going to have tobe as part of a larger package.
" REUTER