INDONESIA URGED TO DEREGULATE ITS ECONOMY
World Bank President Barber Conablelinked increased borrowing by Indonesia, the Third World'ssixth largest debtor, to fresh measures to deregulate trade anddismantle protectionist barriers.    "We would like to see the Indonesian government continue theadjustment process ..
. To move towards increased deregulationof the economy," Conable told a press conference at the end of athree-day visit to Jakarta.    Conable directly linked further Bank help for Indonesia'shard-pressed balance of payments to further measures by thegovernment to reduce protectionism and increase efficiency.
    The World Bank last month granted Indonesia a 300 mln dlrtrade adjustment loan. He said further loans would depend onthe economic policies Indonesia adopted.    But he said that in meetings with both President Suhartoand leading Indonesian ministers he had not called for specificpolicy changes.
    "The initiative will have to rest with the Indonesiangovernment. We are not here to dictate to them," he stated.    Indonesia, the only Asian member of Opec, has been badlyhit by last year's slump in oil prices which cut its revenuesfrom crude exports in half.
    Conable had what he termed a frank meeting this morningwith Suharto.    He voiced support for measures already taken, includingSeptember's 31 pct devaluation of the rupiah, and efforts toderegulate imports and stimulate exports.    "The government can rely on the support of the World Bank ina continuing program of adjustment to the economic realities oftoday's world," he said.
    The Bank has loaned Indonesia 10.7 billion dlrs over thepast 20 years. Lending is now about one billion a year.
    The World Bank would probably like to see furtherdismantling of tarrif barriers and measures to reduceIndonesia's protected monopolies in areas like steel, plasticsand cement, western bankers and diplomats said.    The government has already said it will announce furtherderegulation measures, but has given no timetable. It is alsoconsidering selling off loss-making state companies.
    Conable said the Bank would try to help Indonesia findfunds to cover its share of development projects, whichotherwise would have to be scrapped or postponed. Japan's Ex-Imbank announced a 900 mln dlr untied credit last month. REUTER