CANADA VOWS TO FIGHT U.S. POTASH ACTION
External Affairs Minister Joe Clarktoday vowed to do everything possible to fight the U.S. actionagainst Canadian potash exports, but also warned againstraising the alarm too early in the dispute.    In the latest flashpoint in Canadian-U.S. trade relations,the U.S. International Trade Commission ruled unanimouslyMonday that Canadian potash shipments valued at 270 millionU.S. dlrs last year were injuring the U.S. industry.    "We certainly intend to do everything we can to insure thatCanadian interests are well protected," Clark told the House ofCommons in the daily question period.
    But he said the opposition parties should be careful "notto raise false alarms too early."    The case now goes before the U.S. Commerce Department'strade division to determine if a duty should be imposed. Potashproducers from New Mexico, claiming unfair governmentsubsidies, are seeking a 43 pct tariff on Canada's shipments.
    Canada, the world's largest potash producer, exported 9.8mln metric tonnes of potash last year, with nearly a thirdgoing to the U.S.    Most of the potash, used in the production of fertilizer,comes from provincially owned mines in Saskatchewan.    In the Commons, Liberal member Lloyd Axworthy branded theruling as just another "trade harrassment" from the U.S. andcriticized Clark's assurances the country's interests would beprotected.
    "We received exactly the same kind of assurances in thesoftwood lumber case that was totally fumbled and bumbled,"Axworthy said.    Canada's Progressive Conservative government agreed toimpose a 15 pct duty on its softwood lumber exports earlierthis year to end a long and bitter bilateral trade dispute withthe U.S.    Axworthy urged the government to present Canada's case toworld trade authorities under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade.    But Clark maintained the potash dispute was another exampleof why Canada needs to find a new way to settle bilateralirritants in the free trade negotiations under way with theU.S.    "What we are seeking to do is put in place a bettersystem," Clark said.
    Meanwhile, Saskatchewan Trade Minister Bob Andrew expressedconfidence Canada would win its case, claiming the problemstems from low international commodity prices and notgovernment subsidies.    "The reality of the problem and the injury is causedworldwide," he said. "It's caused by a downturn in thecommodity price for fertilizer, whether it's potash fertilizer,nitrogen fertilizer or whatever.
" Reuter