U.S. WHEAT BONUS TO SOVIET CALLED DORMANT
The U.S. Agriculture Department is notactively considering offering subsidized wheat to the SovietUnion under the export enhancement program (EEP), senior USDAofficials said.    However, grain trade analysts said the proposal has notbeen ruled out and that an offer might be made, though not inthe very near future.    "The grain companies are trying to get this fired up again,"an aide to Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng said.
 "But therejust isn't much talk about it, informally or formally."    Most analysts interviewed by Reuters were more confidentthan USDA officials that bonus wheat would be offered to theSoviets, even though U.S. officials did not make such an offerwhen they held grain talks with Soviet counterparts earlierthis week.    But administration and private sources agreed that if theReagan administration did decide to offer subsidized wheat toMoscow, it could take several months.
    "I just don't see any proposal like that sailing through anyinteragency process," the aide to Lyng said.    "An export enhancement offer is not consummated overnight,"said one former USDA official, who noted that theadministration took three months to decide in favor of sellingChina wheat under the subsidy program.    An official representing a large grain trade company saiddeliberations within USDA might be nudged along by members ofCongress, a number of whom urged USDA this week to make a wheatsubsidy offer to the Soviets.
    But Lyng's aide said that during a day-long visit toCapitol Hill yesterday, House members did not press thesecretary on the subsidy question a single time.    The administration's interagency trade policy review group,comprised of subcabinet-level officials, has not been asked toclear a request to offer Moscow wheat under the EEP, officialsat the U.S. Trade Representative's Office said.    In their talks this week, the two sides discussed theadministration's previous EEP offer but did not talk about anynew initiative.
 One USDA official who took part in theconsultations this week described them as an exchange of "calm,basic, factual economics."    Another USDA official said there was "not even an informalsuggestion or hint" that the Soviets would live up to theirpledge to buy four mln tonnes of wheat this year if they weregranted more favorable terms.    USDA and private sources agreed that consideration of anEEP initiative by interagency review groups likely would bedelayed because of disarray within the White House stemmingfrom the Iran arms affair.
 Reuter