SOVIET GRAINS SEEN ENTERING SPRING ON SHAKY NOTE
Soviet winter grains could be off toa faulty start this spring after enduring an usually dry falland cold winter, weather and crop analysts said.    Prospects for another near-record grain harvest in theSoviet Union appear dim at this point, but it is premature toforecast any major crop problems, analysts said.    But the situation bears careful watching over the next sixweeks and will ultimately impact the Soviet grain supply andfuture buying plans, analysts of the Soviet Union said.
    "From a weather standpoint, you can say with certainty thatthe Soviets are not getting off to a good start and will have alower crop (than last year)," Gail Martell, chief meteorologistfor E.F. Hutton said.    The next six weeks in the USSR's grain growing areas willbe the crucial period that will determine the final outcome ofthe winter crops, Martell and other analysts said.    "Where the crop is really made or broken is still ahead ofus," an Agriculture Department authority on the USSR said.
    The Soviet Union recently reported that nine mln hectaresof winter grain will have to be reseeded due to winterkill.This would be equal to about 25 pct of the total winter cropand would be the second highest winterkill in ten years, theUSDA analyst said.    With a timely spring, Soviet farmers would probably be ableto reseed the damaged acreage with spring crops, but analystsnoted that spring crops normally yield lower than winter crops-- sometimes as much as 30-35 pct lower.
    Normally winterkill is caused by inadequate snowcovercombined with cold temperatures. This winter, however,snowcover in Soviet grain areas has generally been excellent,so the bulk of winterkill, analysts speculate, likely has beendue to a very dry fall and subsequent poor crop germination.    "Fall dryness may be a problem.
 There's a good correlationbetween mediocre crops and fall dryness," Martell said.    Precipitation last fall was as little as 25 pct of normalin southern and northern Ukraine, and below normal over theentire winter crop area, she said.    Recent cold temperatures in grain areas in which thesnowcover has been gradually melting could also have caused problems of ice-crusting and winterkill, Jim Candor, seniorforecaster for Accu Weather, said.
    Livestock feed needs have probably increased because of thefall and winter, analysts said. The dry fall damaged pastures,the cold winter raised feed demands and a late spring wouldrequire longer off-pasture feeding, they said.    "The Soviets are not in a desperate situation .
.. theydon't have to buy (grains) now," a USDA official said.
    But if the Soviets are worried about their winter crops andif they feel that last year's huge crop of 210 mln tonnes was aone-time fluke brought on by perfect conditions, more Sovietbuying might occur to insure crop supplies, he said.    Bad weather during the next six weeks could push theSoviets back into the market, weather analysts said.    "A lot of winterkill could occur during the next month anda half," Martell said.
 Reuter