U.S. CORN, SORGHUM PAYMENTS 50-50 CASH/CERTS
Eligible producers of 1986 crop U.S.corn and sorghum will receive an estimated 600 mln dlrs indeficiency payments -- 50 pct in generic commodity certificatesand 50 pct in cash, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.    It said corn producers will receive about 515 mln dlrs andsorghum producers about 85 mln dlrs.    Only the cash portion of the payments will be subject tothe 4.
3 pct reduction in compliance with the Gramm-Rudmanbudget deficit control act of 1985, it said.    Corn and sorghum producers who requested advance deficiencypayments have already received about 2.8 billion dlrs and 225mln dlrs, respectively, USDA said.
    The Department said deficiency payment rates of 51.5 centsper bushel for corn and 49 cents per bushel for sorghum werereceived by producers requesting advance payments.    Deficiency payments are calculated as the differencebetween an established target price and the higher of the basicloan rate, or the national average price received by farmersduring the first five months of the marketing year --September-January.
    National weighted average market prices for the first fivemonths of the season were 1.46 dlrs per bushel for corn and1.33 dlrs per bushel for sorghum.
 Eligible corn producers willbe paid 63 cts per bushel, based on the difference between the3.03 target price and the 2.40 dlr per bushel basic loan rate.
    Sorghum producers' deficiency payment rate will be 60 centsper bushel, based on the difference between the 2.88 dlrs perbushel target price and the 2.28 dlrs per bushel basic loanrate.
    The deficiency payment rates for both commodities are themaximum permitted by law, the department said.    Eligible corn and sorghum producers will receive another1986 crop deficiency payment in October if the national averagemarket prices received by farmers during the entire marketingyear for both commodities are below the basic loan rates, thedepartment said.    The payments will be issued through local AgriculturalStabilization and Conservation Service offices, it said.
 Reuter