MORE SOVIET GRAIN BUYING FROM U.S. TIED TO PRICE
Whether the Soviet Union will fulfillits buying obligations under the U.S./USSR grains agreementdepends entirely on the United States, a Soviet trade officialtold Reuters.    "How can I tell that we are ready to fulfill the agreementif the United States does not want to offer us grain atcompetitive prices?" said Albert Melnikov, deputy traderepresentative of the Soviet Union to the United States.    "We are in the market for grains, but it is up to theUnited States to be the seller .
.. to offer Soviets competitiveprices," he said in an interview.
    Melnikov said that the United States has not lived up theagreement by failing to make available to Moscow U.S. grain atprevailing market prices.    "We are being accused of not implementing this agreement.We do not consider we are at fault," Melnikov said.
    Article I in the agreement states that "purchases/sales ofcommodities under this Agreement will be made at the marketprice prevailing for these products at the time ofpurchase/sale and in accordance with normal commercial terms."    "The United States should supply to the Soviet Uniondefinite quantities of grain at competitive prices ..
. Is theUnited States ready to supply this?" he said.    The Soviet official said that near-term corn demand hasbeen met by the recent Soviet purchases of U.S. corn, which heconfirmed at 1.
5 mln tonnes, but said that if U.S. corn pricesremain competitive, the Soviets will buy more if they need it.    Wheat buying, however, is a different story, Melnikov said.    "If the United States is interested in selling its wheat,then they must offer competitive prices, and it's up to theUnited States to decide how these competitive prices will beoffered," he said.
    Last year's U.S. offer of subsidized wheat to the Sovietswas rejected because of an insufficient subsidy, Melnikov said.He said that at the time of the 13 dlr per tonne subsidy offer,U.S. wheat prices were 26 dlrs over world levels. Reuter