HOUSE 0/92 FARM PROPOSAL SEEN SPARKING DEBATE
A House Agriculture Committee meetinglater today to draft a disaster aid bill is expected to spark adebate between lawmakers who want to expand the 0/92, or"de-coupling," provision to cover feedgrains, and those whooppose 0/92 or want it severely limited, Congressional sourcessaid.    The disaster aid bill as it now stands calls for a one-year0/92 pilot program for 1987 crop wheat and the 1988 winterwheat crop. The bill would allow farmers to forego planting andstill receive 92 pct of deficiency payments.
    The administration has strongly urged that the bill beexpanded to feedgrains and to more than one year.    It is difficult to tell in what form the 0/92 provisionwill emerge from the committee, the sources said.    Proponents of an expansion of 0/92 maintain there are largeestimated cost savings of such a bill -- ranging from estimatesby the administration of 200 to 500 mln dlrs.
    Opposition to a reopening of the 1985 farm bill at thistime is the major reason cited by those against an expansion ofthe bill, committee staffers said.    The 0/92 plan is scheduled to be discussed at 1530 EST. Aconflicting floor vote delayed the start of the meeting, andstaffers said it may have to be delayed even until next week.    Such a delay would not bode well for proponents of anexpanded 0/92 program, since spring planting in many areas ofthe country will be underway in the next few weeks and signupfor the 1987 wheat and feedgrains program ends March 30.
    Farmers are now making their planting decisions, sosomething has to be done quickly if a 0/92 program is to beimplemented, an Agriculture Department source said.    An expansion of 0/92 to feedgrains was opposed in lastweek's subcommittee hearing on the bill, with subcommitteechairman Dan Glickman, D-Kan., saying that more study of theconsequences of decoupling on feedgrains plantings wasnecessary.
    Major commodity groups, including the National CornGrowers, the American Farm Bureau and the National Cattlemen'sAssociation, have voiced strong opposition to 0/92.    But proponents of an expanded 0/92 argue that the billcurrently is not equitable for all grains producers, so itshould be extended to other crops.    There will be difficulty in limiting 0/92 to wheat, saidGene Moos, aide to house majority leader Tom Foley, D-Wash.
    Projected cost savings, in the current atmosphere of try todecrease farm expenditures, would also be hard to ignore in thedebate to expand the 0/92 application, Moos said.    Rep. Charles Stenholm, D-Tex.
, may be planning to introducea bill to restrict 0/92 to only 1987 crop wheat, with theargument that now is not the time to vote in favor of any majorchanges in the farm bill.    "Stenholm's bill is not a rejection of 0/92, only of thetiming," a congressional staff member said.    Rep.
 Arland Stangeland (R-Minn.) is reported to have anamendment to expand the 0/92 provision to 1987 and 1988feedgrains. Reuter