U.S. FEEDGRAIN 0/92 SUPPORTERS EVALUATE POSITION
Advocates of a 0/92 plan forfeedgrains will likely delay offering their proposals if adisaster aid bill before the House Agriculture Committee isscaled back to include only 1987 winter wheat, congressionalsources said.    The disaster aid bill, introduced by Rep. Glenn English(D-Okla.
), sparked sharp controversy with its proposals toimplement a 0/92 program for 1987 wheat and 1988 winter wheat.    An agreement has been reached to trim the bill back to 1987wheat, but supporters of a 0/92 feedgrains plan said even thatscaled-down version would not be equitable for farmers.    Unless the English bill pertains only to 1987 winter wheat,it is more than a simple disaster payment and feedgrains shouldbe treated equally, they said.
   If the bill is narrowed to just winter wheat, thensupporters of a 0/92 feedgrains amendment will probably notoffer their proposals next week, sources said.   English has agreed to support an amendment by Rep. CharlesStenholm (R-Tex) to narrow the bill to 1987 wheat only, butwhether he would also back a further reduction is unclear.
    Agricultural aides to English said the congressman's firstchoice is to make the option available to all 1987 wheatfarmers. However, if the political reality is that disaster aidfor winter wheat farmers would be unavailable because ofcontroversy over spring wheat, then English might consider aneven greater cutback in the bill, they said.    Under a 0/92 plan, farmers could forego planting and stillreceive 92 pct of deficiency payments.
    Rep. Arlan Stangeland (R-Minn.) and Harold Volkmer (D-Mo.
)have both expressed interest in expanding the English bill toinclude a 0/92 program for feedgrains.    An aide said Stangeland does not want to reopen the farmbill, but to be fair to all crops.    Only a small percentage of spring wheat farmers wouldlikely sign up for 0/92 since the incentives to plant aregreater than to idle the land, economists said.
    Opponents to a 0/92 feedgrains program argue it ispremature to make major changes in the farm bill and that theHouse Agriculture Committee needs to study more closely theimpacts of such a program. Reuter