U.K. AGRICULTURAL FUTURES MARKETS TO MERGE
Three London markets which trade potato,soymeal and meat futures said they will merge to form a newAgricultural Futures Exchange.    Legal advisers have been instructed to implement theamalgamation of the London Potato Futures Association, LPFA,the London Meat Futures Exchange, LMFE, and the Grain and FeedTrade Association's, GAFTA, Soya Bean Meal Futures Association,SOMFA. No timetable was given.    Members of the three exchanges have been consulted,Agricultural Futures Exchange secretary Bill Englebright toldReuters, and no objections have been raised to the merger.
    Three markets are involved at present but the new exchangecould ultimately combine five markets.    Discussions are taking place with the Baltic InternationalFreight Futures Exchange, BIFFEX, and the GAFTA London GrainFutures Market is considering the possibility of joining theother markets, market officials said.    The BIFFEX board is expected to reach a decision on themerger at its meeting at the end of this month, after membersare consulted at a meeting on March 16.
    The grain futures market also intends to consult itsmembers soon, GAFTA director general James Mackie said.    The aim of the amalgamation is to limit regulatory andadministrative costs and achieve the recognition required underthe 1986 Financial Services Act. This legislation requires afutures market to become a Recognised Investment Exchange, RIE,for trading to continue.
    Representatives of all the futures markets on the BalticExchange have been discussing the possibility of a single RIEstructure since the beginning of the year.    The new exchange now planned will apply to the Securitiesand Investments Board for recognition as an RIE "at theappropriate time," the Agricultural Futures Exchange said.    "This commitment by the markets will enable progress to bemade to develop a stronger and more effective exchange to thebenefit of all those involved in the industry," the chairman ofthe formation committee, Pat Elmer, said.
    The merged markets will remain at the Baltic Exchange. Reuter