CBT DISCUSSES MAJOR CHANGES FOR RENOVATION
Chicago Board of Trade (CBT)agricultural and financial futures markets could be in for aperiod of major upheaval later this year if the exchange goesahead with planned renovation.    A CBT spokesman told Reuters the exchange was looking at anumber of options to identify the most cost effective andefficient way to proceed, including one which would involvemoving the entire grains floor out of the building and into thenearby MidAmerica Commodity Exchange.    "One of (CBT Chairman) Karsten Mahlmann's agenda items hasbeen to proceed with renovation in the financial futures room,"the spokesman said.
    Another CBT official, executive vice president GeorgeSladoje, said the issue would be discussed this Friday at aspecial meeting on the exchange floor.    A number of presentations have been made with regard torenovating the financial futures room, Sladoje said. "We'velooked at five or six different alternatives, involving suchthings as flip-flopping the trading rooms," he added.
    It is conceivable that under a couple of these plans, wemight use the MidAmerica Exchange temporarily for some CBTmarkets, Sladoje said.    "If we move out of one floor entirely, then theconstruction period will be about a year," he said, adding thatthe issue was likely to go to a membership vote first and thenbe on the drawing board for eight months to a year.    The CBT spokesman stressed that discussions were verypreliminary at this stage and nothing was likely to begin untilthis summer at the earliest.
    In order to renovate the crowded financial futures pits,exchange officials have discussed providing them a temporaryhome next door in the present grains-dominated area.    This could involve moving CBT markets in U.S. Treasury Bondfutures, Treasury Notes, Muni-bonds, and options on T-Bonds andT-Notes through an adjoining corridor, while utilizing theMidAmerica floor for such CBT futures contracts as corn, wheat,soybeans, soybean products and agricultural options.    Any such moves could meet with opposition among some CBTmembers.
    One senior floor trader said the financial futures roombadly needs renovating.    "There is talk the grains floor will shift to the MidAm andthe financials will move to the grains area," he said.    The CBT spokesman said another option being discussed wasto renovate the financial floor in quadrants, one quarter at atime.
 "The first step, after deciding the most effective way toproceed, would be to get architectural and engineeringdrawings," he said.    He added that it was difficult at present to determine anexact time frame for any possible moves. "This is a majorundertaking and a process that would spread out over nextyear," he said.
    Floor traders at the MidAmerica Commodity Exchange, whichmerged with the CBT about a year ago, said they were preparingto vacate their floor at the end of this month.    Space has recently been cleared for them at the CBT bymoving its Major Market Index pit into the area once reservedfor lightly-traded CBT gold and silver futures, which now sharetheir trading area.    The MidAm specializes in mini-contracts in grains,livestock, metals, financials and foreign currencies as well assome options contracts.
    "Rumor has it that the CBT grains are coming over herebecause the bonds are too crowded," one MidAm trader said.    Another source at the MidAm said this change could takeplace by July or August. Reuter