USSR SEEN LIKELY TO HONOR CORN COMMITMENT
The Soviet Union will likely honorits commitment with the United States to buy a minimum of fourmln tonnes of corn this year, an Agriculture Departmentofficial said.    "They have always honoured the agreement, and there's noreason now to think they won't this year," he told Reuters.    "They have an aggressive buying campaign from the EuropeanCommunity, from Canada, from the U.S. They're active buyersfrom all sources at this point," the official said inexplaining why the Department raised its Soviet grain importsestimate today by three mln tonnes to 26 mln tonnes.
    This is a dramatic shift from just a few months ago whenanalysts were saying the USSR might not buy any U.S. corn forthe first time in 15 years.    A drawdown of corn supplies in China and Argentina, concernover Soviet winter crops, and increasing competition for U.S.corn were all cited as possible factors in creating Moscow'srecent interest.    Lower corn production prospects in some major supplyingcountries have stirred activity from big buyers such as Japan,and the Soviets are also closely watching the situation, theofficial said.
    "The Soviets will try to out-capitalize the capitalists"and buy corn before prices get too high, the official said. "Assoon as they need corn, they'll buy it," he added.    USDA has confirmed one mln tonnes of corn sold to theSoviet Union, but both U.S. and Soviet analysts have said thepurchases stand at 1.
5 mln tonnes.    The USDA official would not speculate on when the Sovietswould enter the U.S. market again.    "There has definitely been an evolving mind set -- from thesituation of slow grain buying a couple months ago to one offrenetic buying now," the official said.
    However, the situation in wheat is "a different story," hesaid. Greater world supplies of wheat, heavier Soviet purchasecommitments and less competitive U.S. wheat prices make Sovietpurchases of U.S. wheat less likely, he said.    Speculation has continued for several days that the U.S.is considering making an export bonus wheat subsidy offer tothe Soviets, but U.S. officials have provided no confirmation.
 Reuter