DOLE SAYS 0/92 OPTION SHOULD BE CONSIDERED
U.S. Senate Republican leader RobertDole said Congress should consider legislation to apply theso-called 0/92 option to producers of major commodities.    Dole told the National Corn Growers Association that hethought the proposal, supported by the Reagan administration,"should be seriously considered" because a refusal to do so could"play into the hands of those who want mandatory controls" placedon production.    However, Dole did not say whether he would support the 0/92option, which would offer producers at least 92 pct of theirincome support payments regardless of how much they planted.
    The Senate Republican leader said the 0/92 option posed twoproblems. First, it is viewed, he said, by some as welfare. Inaddition, debate on the proposal could open up the whole farmbill, Dole said.
    Dole also repeated his call for an across-the-board exportenhancement program, saying a subsidy offer to the Soviet Unioncould help improve U.S. relations with that country.    Dole said that the United States has made the decision totrade with Moscow and that it's important to offer competitiveprices.    The senator predicted Congress would have to decide thisyear whether to require an expansion of the export subsidyprogram, which currently targets benefits to recapture marketslost to other suppliers which subsidize.
    Dole, who last year pledged to offer legislation to requirea marketing loan for major crops but never did so, again calledfor the marketing loan for wheat and feedgrains.    The Reagan administration's proposed farm policy changes"are not going anywhere" this year, Dole said, singling out theproposal to cut target prices 10 pct per year.    Asked by reporters after his speech whether he sensed ashift in the State Department towards supporting an exportenhancement initiative for the Soviet Union, Dole said hedidn't see any change.
    Dole also said it would be a very close call in the Senatewhether to open up the farm bill to general debate this year.    Dole said he was encouraged by the selection of RepublicanDavid Karnes to replace the late Sen. Edward Zorinsky (D-Neb.
) Reuter