PORTUGAL GRAIN AGENCY BARRED FROM IMPORT TENDERS
A Portuguese court has made apreliminary ruling that the state grain buying agency EPACshould not be allowed to take part in public import tendersopen to private importers, grain traders and officials said.    Under the terms of Portugal's January 1986 accession to theEuropean Community, EC, a grain import monopoly held by EPAC(Empresa Publica de Abastecimento de Cereais) is being reducedby 20 pct annually until all imports are liberalised in 1990.    Private traders protested last year that EPAC was beingpermitted to take part in tenders open to them for the firstliberalised 20 pct share of the country's annual import needs.
The grain and oilseed importers association ACICO opened legalproceedings to stop EPAC participating in the public tenders.    Miguel Ascensao of ACICO told Reuters that Lisbon's civilcourt, in a preliminary ruling, had decided EPAC should not beallowed to take part in tenders open to private traders.    Trade sources said the ruling, though effectiveimmediately, was subject to appeal and would have to beconfirmed in further proceedings.
    A member of the government Cereals Market Commission saidthat, as a result of the court's decision, the Commission wouldnot be able to accept offers from EPAC in a public tender beingheld today for the import of 80,000 tonnes of corn.    Ascensao said the court ruling stated that EPAC'sparticipation in the public tenders violated the clauses ofPortugal's EC accession treaty dealing with the gradualdismantling of the state agency's import monopoly.    It also said the participation of EPAC, which stillcontrols the national grain storage and distribution network,was unfair competition to the private traders.
    Traders said they believed the EC's Executive Commissionwas unlikely to get involved in the dispute, preferring toleave the case to be resolved as an internal Portuguese issue.    "They (the EC Commission) will be keeping a low profile," onetrader said.    ACICO says it is ready to take its case to Brussels ifnecessary.
 Reuter