GLICKMAN PUSHES HARD FOR 0/92 FARM PLAN
Implementation of a one-year 0/92pilot program for wheat and feedgrains was strongly promotedtoday by the chairman of a key house agriculture subcommitteeas a way to cut farm costs and simultaneously give farmersanother option when making their planting decisions.    "We have a budget driven farm policy. It may be a shame,but we are locked into this," said Dan Glickman, (D-Kans.
),chairman of the subcommittee on wheat, soybeans and feedgrains. "We need to look at ways to cut costs and not hurt thefarmer. A 0/92 plan, if properly done, could do both.
"    Glickman announced this week plans to introduce a 0/92 billfor 1987 and 1988 wheat and feedgrains. An aide to Glickmansaid that it will probably be introduced next week.    Glickman said a 0/92 program, which allows a farmer toforego planting and still receive 92 pct of his deficiencypayment, would not be a major revision of the 1985 farm bill --only an extension of the 50/92 option already provided underthe current bill.
    It is premature to make any major changes in the farm bill,he said, but if agriculture has to make further cuts to meetbudget goals, a voluntary 0/92 plan would be better thansharply cutting target prices, as USDA has proposed.    A 0/92 plan, however, would not be decoupling, but simply adifferent type of acreage diversion program, Glickman said.    Decoupling -- delinking planting decisions from governmentpayments -- is too much of a policy change to approve at thispoint, he said.
    "I don't think there is any interest in pursuing adecoupling bill this year. Period. Unequivocal," Glickman saidat the hearing.
    Sen. Rudy Boschwitz (R-Minn.), cosponsor of theBoren/Boschwitz decoupling plan, said he supports a short term0/92 program as a move to a more permament decoupling plan.
    Boschwitz plans to introduce a 0/92 plan in the senate. Hisplan would guarantee a certain deficiency payment toparticipating farmers, require that idled acreage be put toconservation use only, prohibit haying and grazing on extraidled acreage, limit participation to a certain number of acresin a county and provide tenant protection provisions.    "I know we cannot obtain complete decoupling in 1987, butwe can at least move in that direction," Boschwitz said.
    Robbin Johnson, vice president of Cargill, Inc., testifiedin favor of decoupling. Decoupling would end the current biasin U.S. farm policy towards overproduction and reduce farmers'dependency on the government, he said.
    A 0/92 plan does not go far enough in decoupling, Johnsonsaid, and would still encourage farmers to plant.    Officials from the National Corn Growers Association andthe National Cattlemen's Association said their groups opposeany 0/92 or decoupling plan due to concerns about reopening thefarm bill and creating more confusion among farmers.    But when asked if his association were forced to choosebetween a ten pct cut in target prices or a 0/92 program, LarryJohnson of the Corn Growers said they would agree to 0/92rather than take sharp cuts in target levels.
 Reuter