NUMEROUS FACTORS SAID POINT TO USSR CORN BUYING
A greater than anticipated need,competitive prices and political motivations could be sparkingSoviet interest in U.S. corn, industry and government officialssaid.    As rumors circulated through grain markets today that theSoviet Union has purchased an additional 1.5 mln tonnes of U.S.corn, industry and government sources noted a number of factorsthat make Soviet buying of U.S. corn likely.
    First, there are supply concerns. Some trade sources saidrecent speculation has been that last year's Soviet grain cropbe revised to only 190 mln tonnes, rather than the 210 mlnannounced, therby increasing the Soviet need for grain.    A drop in Argentine corn crop prospects could also affectSoviet corn buying, an Agriculture Department source said.
    Dry weather in Argentina -- a major corn supplier to theUSSR -- and reported crop problems prompted USDA to lower itsArgentine 1986/87 corn crop estimate this week to 11.0 mlntonnes, down from 11.5 mln.
 Argentina corn exports were alsocut by 500,000 tonnes to 6.8 mln tonnes.    Argentina has already committed four mln tonnes of thisyear's corn for export, a USDA official said, with two mlntonnes of that booked for April-June delivery to the USSR.    "Significant downside potential" still exists for theArgentine crop, the official said, which will decrease theamount of additional corn that country can sell to Moscow.
    "If the Soviet needs are greater than we have beenthinking, then they might need more than what Argentina canprovide during the April to June period," he said.    Current competitive prices for U.S. corn have also sparkedSoviet buying.    U.S. corn was reported to be selling on the world marketearlier this week for around 71 dlrs per tonne, Argentine cornfor 67 dlrs -- a very competitive price spread, U.S. and Sovietsources said.
    "This price difference makes American corn competitive,"Albert Melnikov, commercial counselor for the Soviet Union,told Reuters.    Impending crop problems in Argentina will likely causethose prices to rise, and with the recently strong U.S. cornfutures prices, the Soviets might feel corn prices havebottomed and that this is a good time to buy, sources said.    Finally, some industry sources said that by buying theminimum amount of corn guaranteed under the U.S./USSR grainsagreement (four mln tonnes), the Soviet Union may be hoping toconvince the USDA to offer Moscow a subsidy on wheat.
    In an inteview with Reuters this week, USDA secretaryRichard Lyng said that no decision had been made on a wheatsubsidy offer, but that such an offer had not been ruled out. Reuter