U.S. CONSERVATION FIGURES SEEN NEUTRAL/BEARISH
U.S. Agriculture Department (USDA)figures for highly-erodible land enrolled into the ConservationReserve Program were regarded by most grain analysts as neutralto bearish, although some said a full state-by-state breakdownwould be needed to assess the full price impact.    "Out of 10.5 mln acres only 1.
9 mln acres were accepted incorn -- That's neutral at best and perhaps bearish to what thetrade was looking for," Dale Gustafson of Drexel BurnhamLambert said.    The USDA said it had accepted 10,572,402 more acres intothe conservation program out of bids on a total of 11,254,837acres.    Gustafson said he would not be changing his estimate ofplanted acreage for corn as a result of the latest figures, butsome other analysts said they would adjust their estimatesslightly.
 The USDA is due to release planting intentionsfigures March 31.    Indications of a heavy sign-up in the conservation programrecently lowered most trade estimates of corn planted acreageto 63.0 to 67.
0 mln acres from 67.0 to 69.0 mln.
    Richard Loewy, analyst with Prudential Bache Securities,said there was not enough information to completely assess theconservation figures. "The 1.9 mln acres on corn is certainlydisappointing," he added.
    The USDA later released the state-by-state breakdown of theenrollment figures.    Loewy said the initial figures appeared to be negative forboth new crop corn and soybeans, and might possibly mean anupward adjustment in planting intention figures.    Asked about the impact on the flow of generic certificatesonto the market this spring, he said: "The trade was definitelylooking higher, so certificates are going to be less thanexpected.
"    The USDA offered a special corn "bonus" rental payment tothe farmers to be paid in generic certificates. The bonusamounts to two dlrs per bushel, based on the farm programpayment yield for corn, for each acre of corn accepted into thereserve.    Katharina Zimmer, analyst for Merrill Lynch Futures, saidthe conservation sign-up was slightly higher than she hadexpected, although she noted that some trade expectations wereconsiderably higher than the actual figures.
    "I think it is friendly for the market, at least in thelong run," she said.    Susan Hackmann of AgriAnalysis said there was someconfusion over whether trade ideas of an enrollment figurebetween 15 and 18 mln acres referred to the total sign-up orthe latest addition.    "It seems the trade was looking for more acres to be bidinto the program," she said.
    Hackmann said she would not make much change to her ideasabout corn planting figures as a result of the conservationsign-up. She added that while some trade guesses were as low as61 mln acres, she was looking for corn plantings to be in thehigh 60's.    Zimmer of Merrill Lynch said she would be making a slightreduction of about one mln acres in her planting estimate toaround 64 mln acres.
    New crop corn prices at the Chicago Board of Trade firmedearlier this week on ideas of a large sign-up in the program,despite the fact that acres enrolled are generally pooryielding and not likely to make a substantial difference tofinal production figures. Reuter