AROUND 3.5 MLN ACRES SAID TO BE IDLED BY 0/92
A 0/92 program would have verylittle impact on U.S. acreage, prompting farmers to idle onlyan additional 3.5 mln acres of cropland every year, accordingto a report from the Agriculture Department.    The savings resulting from the additional 3.
5 mln acresidled would be a little over 400 mln dlrs in loan savings, 35mln dlrs in transportation and storage savings, and 10-20 mlndlrs per year in deficiency payment savings, the report said.    The USDA report asssessed the impacts of the proposed 0/92acreage program for wheat, corn, cotton, sorghum and barley.Last year, almost 245 mln acres of those crops were harvested.
    "The likelihood that the 0-92 provisiion will cause verylarge acreages to be removed from crop production is quitesmall," the report said.    "The returns on typical farms still favor participation inthe usual acreage reduction programs and seeding the permittedacreage," the USDA report said.    The 0/92 program, which would allow farmers to foregoplanting and still receive 92 pct of their deficiency payment,would be most used by producers in high production/high riskareas where cost of production is high, said Keith Collins,director of USDA's economics analysis staff.
    "In the heart of the corn belt, you would not get that muchparticipation," Collins said.    USDA estimated that an additional one mln acres of wheatwould be ildled under 0/92, 1.5 mln acres of corn, 500,000acres of sorghum and barley and 500,000 acres of cotton.
    Production from these idled acres would be equivalent to 40mln bushels of wheat, 180 mln bushels of corn, 20 mln bushelsof sorghum, 10 mln bushels of barley, and 500,000 bales ofcotton, the report said.    "In determining whether to participate, a producer wouldneed to weigh the expected cash costs of production against theloan rate ..
. The risk that market prices may rise above theexpected levels and reduce the deficiency payment also must beconsidered," according to the analysis.    "What you're giving up under 0/92 is the difference betweenthe loan rate and the cost of production," Collins said.
    For producers with low production costs, that difference isgreater and can be applied to paying variable costs, he said.Under these cicumstances, farmers would not want to go alongwith 0/92. But for high cost producers, 0/92 would be moreattractive.
    Also, as loan rates get lower, Collins said there would bemore incentives to participate in a 0/92 program.    "I would admit that its impacts would be very marginal atfirst, but it is a step towards the goal of separatingproduction decisions from government payments," Collins said.    In a speech earlier today before the National Grains andFeed Association, USDA Secretary Richard Lyng said it is toolate to implement 0/92 for 1987 crops since program signup willbe over by the end of this month.
 Reuter