CHINA TO IMPORT MORE GRAIN IN 1987
China's grain imports will risein 1987 because of a serious drought and increasing demand, butwill be not be as large as in the past, Chinese officials andJapanese traders told Reuters.    They said foreign exchange constraints and national policywould not allow a return to large-scale imports, which peakedat 16.15 mln tonnes in 1982.
    An agricultural official of the Shanghai government putmaximum imports at about 10 mln tonnes this year, against 7.73mln in 1986 and 5.97 mln in 1985.
    Officials said grain imports rose in 1986 because of a poorharvest and rising domestic demand, but remained below exports,which rose to 9.42 mln tonnes from 9.33 mln in 1985.
    "China is short of foreign exchange," the Shanghai officialsaid. "We cannot rely on imports, even at current low worldprices. Only if there is a major disaster will we become amajor importer.
"    A Japanese trader in Peking said Chinese grain importswould rise and exports fall this year because of the drought,low world prices and rising domestic demand for human andanimal consumption.    "At current prices, China loses yuan on every tonne of grainit exports, though it earns foreign exchange which it badlyneeds," the trader said.    The People's Daily said last Saturday a serious drought isaffecting 13.
3 mln hectares of arable land, which will reducethe summer grain harvest from last year's level.    The paper added that leaders in some areas were not payingenough attention to agriculture, especially grain, making itdifficult to achieve the 1987 grain output target of 405 mlntonnes against 391 mln in 1986.    "All areas must spare no effort to raise the autumn harvestarea, especially of corn, sweet potatoes, paddy rice andhigh-yield cash crops," it said.
    It added factory production might have to be reduced toprovide electricity for agriculture if it was needed to fightthe drought.    Since January, the press has devoted much attention tograin, stressing that growth in output is vital to China'seconomic and political stability and that prices paid tofarmers are too low.    Officials in east China have repeatedly said stable grainproduction is a key state policy and outlined the measuresbeing taken in their areas to encourage output.
    The Shanghai official said that in one suburb, 10 pct ofthe pre-tax profits of factories are used to subsidiseagriculture. He said rural industries in other suburbs also setaside money for grain and pay the salaries of some of the70,000 workers available to help farmers.    Chu Jinfeng, an official of Fengbing county outsideShanghai, said factory workers get 60 yuan a month and threeyears unpaid leave to grow grain and can keep the profits.
    Pan Huashan, an official of the agricultural department ofZhejiang Province, said rural industry also subsidises grainoutput in his province.    "In addition, we are setting up grain production bases,raising the level of science and technology on the farms andimproving the supply of raw materials, roads and otherinfrastructure," he said.    The Shanghai official said rural residents who work inindustry or commerce usually keep their land to farm in theirspare time, or let other family members farm it.
 In some cases,they lease the land to grain farmers.    The China Daily said last month that grain output shouldreach between 425 and 450 mln tonnes by 1990 and between 480and 500 mln by 2000. It said growing grain should be madeprofitable.
    "The advantages the state promises grain growers actuallyyield tangible profits for them and are not siphoned off byintermediate agencies because of bureaucracy or corruption.Only this will boost enthusiasm," it said. REUTER