U.S. HOUSE APPROVES PILOT 0/92 DISASTER PROGRAM
The House of Representativesapproved a bill to enable 1987 winter wheat and feedgrainsfarmers hit by midwestern flooding last year to receive atleast 92 pct of their federal income support payments even ifthey did not plant.    The one-time pilot 0/92 program, designed to assist farmersin Kansas, Oklahoma, Michigan and parts of Missouri, was passedby a 304-100 vote and sent to the Senate.    Although the bill includes a narrow version of the 0/92provision endorsed by the Reagan administration, the U.S.Agriculture Department withheld its support from the measure.
    USDA said the bill would discourage farmers from buyingcrop insurance and fall short of the administration's proposedbroad-scale revision of farm programs.    The bill would permit winter wheat producers prevented fromplanting their 1987 crop last fall to receive 92 pct of thedeficiency payments they would have received.    To be eligible, winter wheat farmers could not plant adifferent crop on that land this spring, although they coulduse the land for grazing or to plant hay.
    USDA estimated this provision would save 30 mln dlrs,largely because of reduced crop forfeitures.    The bill also would aid about 200 feedgrains producersalong the Missouri and Mississippi Rivers who were preventedfrom planting crops this year because of residual damage fromlast fall's flooding.    In addition, the measure would require USDA to make fullpayment to farmers eligible for emergency assistance approvedby Congress last fall.
    Currently, because claims have outstripped the 400 mln dlrsin appropriated funds, USDA plans to offer farmers in theregion 74 cents for every dollar in disaster losses.    The administration said it opposed the bill because, byexpanding the 400 mln dlrs in disaster relief, it would thwartefforts to encourage farmers to buy crop insurance as analternative to federal disaster assistance.    USDA also said the 0/92 provisions in the bill werenarrower than the administration's proposal to offer the optionto all major commodities and would produce insignificantsavings.
    USDA said the 0/92 option for 1987 winter wheat farmerswould produce a net savings of about 30 mln dlrs, while therequirement to compensate fully disaster-struck farmers wouldcost about 135 mln dlrs, which must be appropriated byCongress. The feedgrains provision would cost about five mlndlrs.    USDA estimated the overall cost of the bill to be 111 mlndlrs.
    In January the Senate approved a bill that would make 1987winter wheat farmers eligible for disaster assistance payments.    But the Senate bill would not offer the 0/92 option towheat and feedgrains producers or raise the 400-mln dlr ceilingon the disaster assistance program. Reuter