LYNG SAID TO HAVE NO COMMENT ON USSR WHEAT EEP
U.S. Agriculture Secretary RichardLyng told representatives of several of the largest grainexporting firms and two farm organizations that he was not in aposition to comment on their request that the Reaganadministration offer subsidized wheat to the Soviet Union,according to participants in today's meeting.    "He (Lyng) simply told us he was not in any position to talkabout an EEP (export enhancement program) initiative to theSoviet Union," said Glen Hofer, vice president of the NationalCouncil of Farmer Cooperatives.    Another participant in the meeting, who asked not to beidentified, said Lyng was "unresponsive" to the group's request.
    Participants in the meeting included Cargill Inc,Continental Grain Co, Louis Dreyfus Corp, Union EquityCooperative Exchange, the National Association of WheatGrowers, the National Council of Farmer Cooperatives, amongothers, participants said.    Deputy Agriculture Secretary Peter Myers and UnderSecretary Daniel Amstutz also attended the 30-minute meeting.    Hofer described Lyng as "sympathetic but noncommittal," andsaid he thought he detected "a sense of frustration" on Lyng'spart at not being able to respond more positively to thegroup's urging.
    A grain industry representative said some participants were"puzzled" by USDA's apparent reluctance to bring before thecabinet council an EEP wheat offer to the Soviets.    "There is a feeling that there is more receptivity (to theidea) within the cabinet council now than there ever has been,"this official, who asked not to be identified, said, referringto an EEP wheat offer to the Soviets.    This official said there was not a significant amount ofpressure being exerted by lawmakers on Lyng to make an EEPoffer to Moscow.
    Reminded that Senate Agriculture Committee Chairman PatrickLeahy (D-Vt.) had written two letters to Lyng urging such anoffer, this official said Lyng had received virtually no phonecalls from lawmakers on the subject.    But Hofer said other important matters at the White House,rather than an absence of political pressure, might haverestrained Lyng.
 Reuter