U.S. CORN MARKET SKEWED BY SOVIET BUYING
Recent purchases of U.S. corn by theSoviet Union have skewed the domestic cash market by increasingthe price difference between the premium price paid at the Gulfexport point and interior levels, cash grain dealers said.    Many dealers expect the USDA will act soon to reduce thecash price premium at the Gulf versus the interior -- which adealer in Davenport, Iowa, said was roughly 20 pct wider thannormal for this time of year at 25 cents a bushel -- by makingit worthwhile for farmers to move grain.    By lowering ASCS county posted prices for corn, the USDAcould encourage farmers to engage in PIK and roll corn sales,where PIK certificates are used to redeem corn stored under thegovernment price support loan program and then marketed.
    If the USDA acts soon, as many dealers expect, the movementwould break the Gulf corn basis.    "The USDA has been using the Gulf price to determine countyposted prices," one dealer said. "It should be taking theaverage of the Gulf price and the price in Kansas City," whichwould more closely reflect the lower prices in the interiorMidwest.
    "But we don't know when they might do it," an Ohio dealersaid, which has created uncertainty in the market.    The USDA started the PIK certificate program in an effortto free up surplus grain that otherwise would be forfeited tothe government and remain off the market and in storage.    Yesterday, USDA issued a report showing that only slightlymore than 50 pct of the 3.
85 billion dlrs in PIK certificatesit has issued to farmers (in lieu of cash payments) had to datebeen exchanged for grain.    With several billion dlrs worth of additional PIKcertificates scheduled to be issued in the coming months, theUSDA would be well advised to encourage the exchange for grainby adjusting the ASCS prices, cash grain dealers said.    A byproduct of the Soviet buying has been a sharp rise inbarge freight costs quoted for carrying grain from the Midwestto the export terminals, cash dealers said.
    Freight from upper areas of the Mississippi have risennearly 50 pct in the past two weeks to over 150 pct of theoriginal tariff price. The mild winter and early reopening ofthe mid-Mississippi river this spring have also encouraged thefirmer trend in barge freight, dealers noted.    The higher transportation costs have served to depressinterior corn basis levels, squeezing the margins obtained bythe elevators feeding the Gulf export market as well asdiscouraging farmer marketings, they said.
    "The Gulf market overreacted to the Soviet buying reports,"which indicate the USSR has booked over two and perhaps as muchas 4.0 mln tonnes of U.S. corn, one Midwest cash grain tradersaid.    But dealers anticipate that once the rumors subside,freight rates will settle back down because of the overallsurplus of barges on the Midwest river system.
 Reuter