FED DRAFTS CURRENCY, RATE SWAP RISK GAUGE
The Federal Reserve Board votedunanimously to propose a formula for calculating the risk ofinterest rate and currency swaps as part of its ongoing effortto come up with a new capital standard for U.S. banks thattakes into account the riskiness of a bank's loans and otherassets.    Fed officials said an identical proposal was being issuestoday by the Bank of England.    The Fed set a 60-day period for public comment on the plan.
    The proposal adopted today addresses only the credit risksassociated with interest rate swaps, forward foreign exchangecontracts and similar financial instruments.    Previously, the Fed Jan. 8 proposed a series of guidelinesfor calculating the risk of other off-balance-sheet activitiesthat banks would be required to take into account incalculating the minimum financial cushion they would need tomaintain.
    Both guidelines set five broad categories of risk for loansand other bank assets and assigned to each a level of risk thatwould establish a bank's minimum capital needs.    The additional guidelines proposed today would determinethe amount of capital support required for a bank's currentexposure for a given asset and the potential future exposure.    The current exposure would be measured by themark-to-market value of the asset, which would reflect thereplacement cost.
    Potential future increases in the replacement cost would becalculated using credit conversion factors based on statisticalanalyses by the staffs of the Bank of England and U.S. bankingregulators. Future exposure would rise over the life of theasset.    The Fed staff said the risk gauge attempted to balanceconflicting needs for precision and simplicity.
    They ignore, for example, the relative volatility of theparticular currencies involved in exchange rate contracts.    Board officials said the new gauge could increase thecapital required of the largest money center banks, which arethe principal participants in these types of activities.    They cautioned the Fed board to take account of thepotential impact of the plan on the ability of U.S. banks tocompete in world financial markets.
    However, the staff concluded, "The credit risks inherent insuch contracts now constitute a significant element of the riskprofiles of some banking organizations."    The Fed proposal would exempt all but the 20-25 largestparticipants in this market, on grounds the benefits ofincluding the smaller banks would be outweighed by costs.    Also excluded would be interest rate and foreign exchangecontracts traded on organized exchanges.
    Governor Martha Seger said she was concerned that Japan wasnot involved in the U.K.-U.S. effort to draft new capitalrules. Reuter