NEW BANK RULES TOUGHER THAN NEEDED, DEALERS SAY
U.S. and U.K. bank regulators are askingbanks to set aside more reserves than is necessary to cushionthem against the risks posed by the interest rate and currencyswap transactions they carry, swap dealers said.    After viewing proposed guidelines released jointly today bythe Bank of England and the Federal Reserve Board, dealers saidthat in effect, regulators are asking them to set asidereserves twice for the same risk.    Market participants will have 60 days to respond to theproposals.
    Adoption of stiffer capital requirements is especiallysignificant in the eurobond markets, which saw new issue volumeof about 183 billion dlrs in 1986 according to figures compiledby Euromoney magazine. While no firm figures exist, dealers ineurobonds estimate that 80 pct of all new issues are involvedin some swap arrangement. Separately, the ISDA estimates thatabout 300 billion dlrs worth of swap transactions areoutstanding.
 Kenneth McCormick, co-chairman of theInternational Swap Dealers Association (ISDA) and President ofKleinwort Benson Cross Financing Inc, said that the Associationhas no comment and will study the proposals.    "What they are proposing is really double counting," Patrickde Saint-Aignan, managing director of swaps for Morgan Stanleyand Co, said. Instead, he argues, banks should either berequired to hold a percentage of the face value -- say one pctper year to maturity -- or to hold a percentage of the cost ofreplacing the contract in the event of a counterparty default.
    "The potential risk factors are very large relative to whatwe had expected," said a director at one U.K. merchant bank."What they are really doing is asking you to capitalize now --to borrow money now -- to cushion you against risk you mighthave 10 years from now," he added.(Adds title first paragraph).
    Dealers also said they believe that banks not covered bythe agreement, such as those based in Japan, will have acompetitive advantage because they will not have to pass thecosts on to customers.    Indeed, regulators are apparently also concerned about theexclusion of other countries from the new requirements. FederalReserve Board Governor Martha Seger, following approval of theproposed guidelines by the Fed, said she is concerned thatJapan was not involved in the U.K.-U.S. effort to draft newcapital rules.
     Dealers said they were somewhat relieved to see that bankregulators recognized the concept of netting, that is,offsetting the amounts receiveable from and payable to a singlecounterparty against each other.    The paper said that regulatory authorities "recognize thatsuch arrangements (netting) may in certain circumstances reducecredit risk." Furthermore, the paper said, if a nettingagreement could be reached that would withstand legal tests, itmight be willing to reduce capital requirements accordingly.
    But dealers said they fear regulators may insist on anairtight netting agreement that is impossible to design.     "One problem is that there has never been a major defaultin the swaps market. So we don't know if any of the swaparrangements will really stand up in court," said one bankofficial.
 Reuter