BANKERS WELCOME SPANISH RESERVE REQUIREMENT HIKE
Bankers welcomed the Bank of Spain'sdecision to raise the reserve requirement for banks and savingsbanks, saying it reflected the socialist government'sdetermination not to ease up in the fight against inflationdespite the painful social effects of four years of austerity.    The central bank last night raised the requirement by onepercentage point to 19 pct from March 13, saying that excessliquidity threatened money supply and inflation targets.    Bankers said the move represented a change of tactic by theBank, which until now has relied on raising interest rates tochoke off money supply growth.
    "I think it's a good measure," a senior foreign banker said."It's a faster way to get the job done than using interest ratesand avoids unpleasant effects on other areas of the economy."    "It shows that the political will is very strong.
 They knowthat controlling inflation will make industry more competitiveand bring down unemployment in the long run," he added.    The head of another foreign bank said that only a monthago, the Bank of Spain had dismissed his suggestion of a risein reserve requirements, preferring to pursue its strategy ofraising interest rates.    But bankers said the high real interest rates on offer now-- around eight pct for overnight funds -- was attracting moneyfrom abroad, strengthening the peseta and making Spanishexports less competitive.
    The government says industry's competitiveness is alsobeing hit hard by inflation. At 8.3 pct last year, the rate wasway above that of Spain's major trading partners in theEuropean Community, which it joined a year ago.
    To help meet this year's target of five pct, it isinsisting pay rises stay at that level, setting the stage forclashes with trade unions, who say they have made enoughsacrifices.    Demonstrations by workers, students and farmers, whosedemands essentially involve more government spending, havebecome an almost daily occurrence. But Prime Minister FelipeGonzalez insists that the state is doing as much as it can.
    Bankers said the reserve requirement increase could havesome impact on commercial lending rates but should not hit themoney market too hard.    The Bank of Spain, which only yesterday raised its keyovernight call money rate to 13.5 pct, left it unchanged attoday's auction.
 The rate has been increased nine times sincethe start of the year, when it was below 12 pct.    Bankers said commercial lending rates were set to rise inany case with the end of the six pct maximium interest ratebanks can offer for time deposits of up to six months.    The measure will take effect tomorrow, following thepublication of the decree in today's official gazette.
 Bankerssay the liberalisation will increase the cost of funds and,inevitably, push lending rates higher.    A companion measure, reducing the proportion of funds whichbanks must invest in specific areas, also takes effecttomorrow. Officials said when the cut was approved last monththat it was aimed partly at compensating banks for higherinterest rates.
 REUTER