BANK OF ENGLAND RESISTS PRESSURE FOR RATE CUT
The Bank of England again fought againstmoney and bond market pressure for a pre-Budget interest ratecut, leaving the pound to take the strain with a further risein its trade-weighted index to a six-month high.    It closed at its best level since September 12, at 71.4 pctof its 1975 value on the index, as foreign investors continuedto buy into a currency which offers high relative returns andthe possibility of short-term capital gains, dealers said.
    Meanwhile, opinion is divided over whether the Bank canstop a cut before Budget Day, March 17, and why it should wantto.    The Bank's latest strong signal to the market that it wantsrates to stay steady for the moment came in midafternoon, whenit lent to the discount houses at a penal rate of 11-3/4 pct torelieve a money market shortage.    "They're really making the discount houses suffer," saidStephen Lewis, economist at brokerage house Phillips and Drew.
"Eleven and three-quarters pct is way above money market rates."    This money market signal was apparently not accompanied byany sterling sales on the foreign exchanges, talk of which hadinhibited strong rises yesterday and Tuesday, so buyers camestrongly into the pound.    The pound surged to a high of 1.
5798/808 dlrs at the Londonclose, up from the previous finish at 1.5650/60, and 2.8900/60marks, up from 2.
8720/50.    "If this pressure keeps up..
.There is a possibility thatrates could drop before the Budget," said Jeremy Hale, economistat finance house Goldman Sachs International Corp.    Some gilt traders are forecasting a half-point cut in thebase rate from the current 11 pct as early as tomorrow.
    However, analysts said the Bank of England will need to beconvinced that the present rise is a fundamental re-ratingrather than a result of short-term speculative gains.    There are valid reasons for the Bank to be cautious, saidPeter Fellner, U.K. Economist at brokers James Capel and Co.    Markets have become highly optimistic about the chances ofa Conservative Party victory in any early general election, anddisappointment if Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher decides tohold back could lead to a decline in the pound and a setbackfor bonds, Fellner said.
    An election could be delayed until mid-1988, but mostforecasts say it will be this year.    Others note that the pound could yet prove vulnerable tooil price losses or a change of fortune for the dollar.    However, analysts agree the Bank is largely trying to setthe timing of a cut than holding out against one altogether.
    The authorities traditionally prefer a single sustainablerate move, one way or the other, to half points here and there.    Some add the Bank will be influenced by signs that at leasta proportion of the latest bout of sterling buying is long-termcapital coming into the London market, notably from Japan.    They argue that the pound is being perceived as a safer betthan the dollar, given the latters recent sharp falls andcurrent political upheavals in Washington.
    The Bank may want to see another few points on thetrade-weighted index before the Budget, argued Lewis. "But bythen sterling should be firm enough to satisfy even the Bank ofEngland," he added.    The Bank declined to comment on its reasons for resistingpressure for a rate move before the budget, but banking sourcessaid the authorities see the recent rise in sterling as morethan just marking up by foreign exchange traders.
    Meanwhile, analysts noted the market ignored potentiallyharmful news on the trade front, today's figures showing thatthe current account deficit in 1986 was 1.1 billion stg.    This was above previous estimates of the current accountdeficit and compares with a surplus of 2.
9 billion stg in 1985.    Fellner said that under more normal conditions this wouldhave given the bond and currency markets a pause, but that theywere too bullish to worry about such fundamentals.    The guessing game over the timing of a cut has the clearingbanks divided as well as the markets.
 Privately, some bankofficials forecast the Bank will hold out at least for thisweek, but at least one bank says a rise is possible tomorrow.If a move comes before March 17, forecasts are for a half-pointcut, with another half or full point about Budget day. REUTER