FRENCH PRIMARY BOND MARKET SHOWS NEW SPARKLE
The French primary bond market is showingsigns of renewed effervescence after several weeks of lethargyand the trend is expected to continue if hopes of imminentinterest rate cuts are fulfilled, market operators said.    The Bank of France is generally expected to give a signalto the market, possibly at the beginning of next week, byannouncing a quarter point cut in its intervention rate, whichhas stood at eight pct since January 2, or in its seven-dayrepurchase rate, set at 8-3/4 pct since January 5.    The central bank's averaged-out day to day call money rate,the reference rate for interbank money market operators, whichreached 8-3/4 pct on February 18 has fallen to 7-3/4 pct thisweek, dealers noted.
    The Bank of France's "open market" policy to regulate themoney markets since December has been based on a floor andceiling of rates within the limits of its intervention andseven day repurchase rates.    For the moment the sentiment is of "wait and see" on ratecuts, but there are now more optimists than pessimists amongmarket operators, a dealer for a major French bank said.    Dealers said there is abundant liquidity on the bondmarket, noting that this week's monthly Treasury tap issue of11.
87 billion francs had a good reception and was fairly easilyabsorbed.    The Treasury had set an upper limit on the issue of 12billion francs and was likely to continue to try and sell asmuch paper as it could over coming months to meet its borrowingneeds for this year of around 150 billion, one banker said.    Dealers said there was no difficulty in placing liquidityin the primary market at the moment despite competition fromthe surge in investments on the Paris stock exchange.
    There has been a flood of large bond issues, but withformulas well adapted to market conditions and investor demand- with warrants or a mix of fixed and floating-rates - whichhave been snapped up, and with generally broadly negative fees.    Dealers pointed to the recent Caisse d'Aide a l'Equipementdes Collectivites Locales (CAECL) 8.90 pct two billion francbond with warrants exchangeable for floating-rate bonds issuedover 13 years and 80 days at 97.
04 pct with payment date March9, which was today quoted at -0.90 to -1.10 pct.
    Even classic fixed-rate issues, after being neglected sincethe end of last year, are finding buyers, one banker said.    Dealers said that now the question was to see how the termsof imminent operations would be set, with great market interestfocussed on the likely three next issues.    These will include an expected four to five billion francissue for Electricite de France, to be followed by a bond ofaround one billion francs for Auxiliaire du Credit Foncier, asubsidiary of the banking group Credit Foncier de France, and anew issue by tender from the mortgage agency Caisse deRefinancement Hypothecaire.
 REUTER