IMF URGES BELGIUM TO MAKE FURTHER SPENDING CUTS
The Belgian government, whichintroduced large-scale public spending reductions last year,has been told by an International Monetary Fund team there isscope for further cuts in 1988.    The suggestion is contained in the preliminary conclusionsof the annual IMF consultations with Belgium on its economicpolicy, a copy of which was distributed to journalists at theweekly press conference following meetings of the cabinet.    The IMF team also urges Belgium to adopt a firm interestrate policy, with a particular emphasis on long-term rates.
    The team's report to the government praises last year'sspending cuts, which are due to reduce 1987 government spendingby 195 billion francs, and says 1986 saw the Belgian economyperform "better, on a broader basis, than at any time so far inthe 1980s."    However, it adds that with lower inflation, stabilisationof the debt to gross national product ratio requires a muchlower budget deficit than the seven pct of GNP target thegovernment has set itself for 1989.    The government's net financing requirement was 11.
0 pct ofGNP in 1986.    The report says "The most that can be afforded over the nextfew years is a zero growth of real non-interest expenditure ofgeneral Government."    It says there is a need for a revision of the Belgian taxsystem to iron out distortions and meet hopes of a reduced taxburden but substantial progress is needed in stabilising thedebt to GNP ratio before this is possible.
    "Because of the difficulty of sustaining zero expendituregrowth and of likely growing impatience (for) tax reductions,we feel that your position would be stronger if you coulddecide on rather sharp expenditure reductions in 1988," thereport adds.    The IMF urges a strong interest rate policy to signal thegovernment's determination to keep its currency strong and tocurb inflation.    It says firmer long-term rates would slow private netlong-term capital outflows, which increased strongly in 1986.
    It also urges net repayments of foreign currency debt andan overhaul of domestic capital markets to facilitate thesubscriptions by non-residents of government bond issues inBelgian francs. REUTER