BANK OF ENGLAND PRESSURE HOLDS BASE RATES
This week's Bank of England resistance tostrong market pressure for lower interest rates succeeded inholding bank base rates at 11 pct.    But at a cost of threatening the Chancellor of theExchequer Nigel Lawson's policy, stated at the end of the ParisGroup of Six meeting last month, that he wanted to see sterlingbroadly stable about then prevailing levels, market sourcessaid.    Since then, the pound has risen to 71.
8 pct on its closingtrade-weighted index, up from 69.7 pct imediately after theParis meeting and up 0.4 on the day.
    Today's peak at 72.0 pct was its highest since August 19.    A Treasury spokesman said Lawson had said he neither wanteda substantial rise or fall in sterling.
 The question istherefore how large a rise he is ready to see before acting.    Paul Temperton, chief economist at Merrill Lynch EuropeLtd, estimated that the government wanted to see thetrade-weighted index about 72-73 pct. "Even after this actionover the last few weeks, sterling's only just within strikingdistance of that range," he said.
    Other analysts agree that the government probably has somebroad target range around this area.    However, they said Lawson would be prepared to see thepound go higher at least in the short term, despite the risk ofa loss of export competitiveness and cheaper prices on imports.    "If the Bank of England keeps the interest rates as theyare, what's to stop it (going higher)," said John Cox, executivedirector of EBC Amro Bank Ltd, a major operator on the Londonforeign exchange market.
    Cox estimates that the Bank of England has been activeselling sterling over the past few days, despite the lack ofgeneral market talk of such intervention, and this has helpedkeep it below 1.60 dlrs.    The pound rose to 1.
5870 dlrs from 1.5764 yesterday and1.5400 February 23, the day after the Paris meeting.
    But Cox says the government must be worried with sterlingheading toward 2.95 marks and would be very concerned if itholds around these levels.    He warned the Bank may run the risk of missing the interestrate boat.
 "If rates don't come down, the market will say theyought to have come down and will sell sterling," he said.    Most dealers agree there is a good deal of "hot money" beinginvested in sterling, money simply attracted by high overnightor one-week rates, which could flow out at equally shortnotice.    However, the authorities will hope that at least aproportion of the buying reflects long-term investment.
    "The last thing they want to do is reduce them (rates) andhave to jack them back up again," said Richard Jeffrey,economist at brokerage house Hoare Govett Ltd.    He said a half point cut would ensure continued support forsterling, at least in the near term.    However, most analysts are still looking for a full pointabout March 17, Budget Day.
    The Bank must hold out until it sees the reaction to theBudget, said Temperton.    The Budget is widely forecast to be a vote winner in therun-up to a general election, the major factor behind currentbullishness in the government bond and currency markets.    "Lawson wants to delay a cut in base rates until the budget.
He wants it to be crowned with the glory of an interest ratecut," said Ian Harwood, economist at Warburg Securities, theequities arm of Mercury International Group.    Speculation a clearing bank might break ranks and lead theway lower were confounded today. There was excitement a fall inthe weekly Treasury Bill rate to 9.
7 pct from 10.2 pct lastFriday might mean the Bank had changed its mind.    This followed the imposition of penal lending rates of 113/4 pct on the discount houses yesterday, and was the lowestsince base rates were at 10 pct, early last October.
    However, with this Bill rate pertaining to three-monthsmoney, banking sources said the market could not take the cutas a guide to the Bank's intentions on short term rates. REUTER