POSITIVE OUTLOOK TEMPERED IN U.S. DEBT FUTURES
Higher oil prices and stronger thanexpected U.S. employment growth led to sharp losses in U.S.interest rate futures and diminished what had been a positivechart outlook, financial analysts said.    The increase of 319,000 in non-farm payroll employmentduring February was above market expectations for a rise of170,000 to 200,000 jobs and sparked selling in Treasury bondfutures that drove the June contract through key technicalsupport at 101-2/32 at the opening Friday, they noted.    "I don't like that fact that we had a close below 101,"said Prudential Bache analyst Fred Leiner.
 The 101-2/32 levelin the June bond contract had been the top of a three-monthtrading range, which when penetrated during the rally Wednesdayled to bullish forecasts by chartists.    But analysts called it a false breakout on the weeklycharts when the June bond closed at 100-10/32 Friday.    Some also forecast that the high of the week at 101-19/32may signal a bearish double top formation portending steeplosses.
    "I tend to go along with the double top scenario," saidNorthern Futures analyst Eileen Rico.    Rico noted that the possible formation, along with the factthat the rally of the last two weeks in bond futures hasoccurred on relatively low volume, were negative signals.    Despite what could be a negative chart outlook, Leinerremains cautiously optimistic, and June bonds should findsupport between 100 and 99-16/32 next week.
    The optimistic outlook, as well as Leiner's expectationthat the yield curve will flatten in the near term, is based onan improving inflation outlook.    With the dollar stable and economic data giving the FederalReserve little room to ease monetary policy, "the inflationoutlook is improving," Leiner said, and that should lead torelatively stronger bond prices than bill and Eurodollarprices.    Still, Leiner noted that the recent rise in oil pricesremains a concern for the inflation outlook.
    Oil rose during the week on reports that OPEC nations weremaintaining production quotas and official prices, and got anextra boost Friday due to the suspension of oil exports fromEcuador after an earthquake Thursday.    "The runup in crude oil will be a short-lived phenomenon,"said Carroll McEntee and McGinley analyst Brian Singer.    The rise in oil prices over the past week has been largely"media induced," Singer said.
 He noted that even though OPECproduction may be within quotas, "oil stocks are attremendously high levels."    Although the Ecuador situation could cause a delay, oilprices will eventually decline to the lows of late February, hesaid, and that will be a supportive influence for bond prices. Reuter