GERMAN GOVERNMENT NEEDS SEEN RAISING BOND YIELDS
Increased federal government borrowingneeds and a growing unwillingness by foreign investors to buymark assets could push yields in German public authority bondshigher this year, bond market sources say.    "At the moment we have a sideways movement in the short-termrates. But how rates move in the long end will depend stronglyon foreigners," one portfolio manager for a large securitiesinvestment house in Frankfurt said.
    The sources also said the government had already stepped upits borrowing programme in anticipation on increased needs.    Friday's loan stock was the third this year already, thesources noted. It carried a 10-year maturity, a coupon of sixpct and price of 100-1/4 to yield 5.
97 pct at issue.    This compared with the last issue which had a 5-3/4 pctcoupon priced at 99-3/4 pct for a yield of 5.75 pct.
    But dealers said the terms were not enough to attractforeign investors, and the federal government would have topush yields higher in future if it wanted to borrow again soon.    Sources noted federal government issues had also increasedin size, with the introduction of a four billion mark volumeonly starting last May.    One finance ministry economist said "It isn't more.
 It'sjust the size (of each bond) which has increased." He addedconditions in the capital market currently remained fairlyfavourable for raising new debt.    Until recently, federal issues sold very strongly abroad,with up to 90 pct of some being placed with foreign investors.
    With the recent stabilisation of the U.S. Dollar, however,foreign investors have begun to back away from the market, ashopes of further currency gains in marks diminish.    Sources said the government has may have already stepped upits borrowing, having raised more than 18 billion marks.    The government made net borrowings of 23 billion marks in1986.
 But Bundesbank statistics showed that net borrowingthrough bonds was 26.6 billion.    The sources said this indicated a move by the governmentout of other types of debt to gain access to foreign fundsthrough the more acceptable loan stock form.
    Although new credit needs were partly inflated by a largeamount of issues maturing recently, other factors, includingthe government's tax reduction program, would also reduceincome next year. "The problem here will be the tax reform," theportfolio manager said.    He added that the government's cut in its top income taxrate to 53 pct from 56 pct in 1988 would make it difficult forthe government to reduce borrowings.
    The sources said the government would fall far short ofcovering all of its 40 billion marks in lost revenue from thetax reform by making expenditure cuts and would be forced tofall back on debt markets in one form or the other.    The portfolio manager noted that besides the three federalgovernment loan stocks so far this year, it has also fallenback twice to raise a total 6.43 billion marks through theissue of fixed-rate medium-term "Kassenobligation" notes.
    A finance ministry economist said the government did notexpect to have any trouble keeping to its plan to borrow only anet 22.3 billion marks this year.    Though many sources agreed, they added that the trend wouldprobably not continue next year as the further tax cuts comeinto effect.
    "I would expect the efforts for a further tax reform wouldmean government borrowing will increase," the manager said.    Bond prices last week were slightly firmer on balance, withthe Bundesbank's public authority bond yield calculationfalling to 5.64 pct on Friday from 5.
66 a week earlier.    But sources said foreign demand for the new federalgovernment loan stock was slack, as sentiment grows that thedollar may now rise against the mark.    "The demand wasn't so good," a dealer for a German bank inLondon said.
    The dollar's recent slight appreciation against the markeven meant that foreign investors have sold mark bondsrecently, some dealers said. REUTER