POEHL SAYS FURTHER RATE CUT POSSIBLE - SOURCES
Bundesbank president Karl Otto Poehltold a closed investment symposium that West Germany could cutleading interest rates again if the United States makes asimilar move, banking sources said.    The sources were reporting Poehl's remarks at a symposiumin Duesseldorf last week organised by Deutsche Bank Ag. Pressrepresentatives were not invited.
    The sources, speaking separately, said Poehl told about 200bankers in reply to questions that a cut in U.S. Interest rateswould give room for a matching measure in Germany.    "It was a definite hint at lower German interest rates," saidone banker who attended the symposium.    A Bundesbank spokesman said the central bank would have nocomment on the reported remarks, made at the private meeting.
    But, according to a second source, who also declined to beidentified, Poehl's comments were seen by bankers present as adirect pointer to further moves by the central bank to defendGerman industry from an additional revaluation of the mark.    "He said if the Americans drop their interest rates then theBundesbank would also drop them. He said that quite clearly,"the second source said.
    In reply to questions, Poehl also said the half-point cutin the discount and Lombard rates on January 22 came after theU.S. Had signalled it would be prepared to attend a meeting todiscuss the level of the dollar on condition Germany made sucha move in advance, the sources said.    Asked if American authorities could have been persuaded, bycuts in German rates, to come to the bargaining table as earlyas last September, one of the sources quoted Poehl as saying,"No, they wouldn't have been. We checked that.
"    The Paris meeting of the Group of Six industrial nationstook place exactly one month after the German cut in rates.    Poehl emphasised in his comments the very close talksbetween central banks before and after the G-6 meeting, sayingthat financial markets had not fully realised the significanceof the Paris session and the U.S. Agreement to stem furtherfalls in the value of the dollar, the sources said.    For the first time all participants at the summit agreedthat a further fall in the dollar would be harmful for allworld economies, including the U.S., Poehl had said.
    The sources said the tone of Poehl's comments boostedgrowing sentiment that the dollar would be stabilised aroundcurrent levels by international central bank cooperation.    One source said Poehl's remarks also underlined the factthat the Bundesbank was now more prepared to be accommodativein monetary policy in order to prevent a further slowdown inWest Germany's economic growth.    Poehl and other Bundesbank officials have in the paststressed that the German central bank had no directresponsibility for growth and was solely concerned withcombatting inflation.
    This led, for instance, to the introduction of a tightermonetary stance from the beginning of December until thehalf-point cut in rates in late January.    The sources quoted Poehl as saying that the currentovershooting of the German monetary target would not directlyrespark inflation. The Bundesbank was not obliged to reactimmediately whenever such overshooting occurs.
    Latest data for central bank money stock, the Bundesbank'smain measure of money supply, showed the measure was growing at7-1/2 pct in January, outside its three to six pct 1987 target.    Share prices rose in very active trading today, withdealers reporting that Poehl's remarks, coupled with a bullishoutlook on stock prices from Deutsche at the same symposium,brought in strong bargain hunting at current low levels. REUTER