U.K. ISSUES ONE BILLION STG BOND TRANCHE
The Bank of England said it was takingonto its books a further one billion stg tranche of 8-3/4 pctTreasury Loan stock due 1997, payable 40 stg pct onapplication. The stock was issued to the Bank at 96.50 stg pctand will be available for dealings from March 11, with theremainder of the amount payable on May 5.
 The Bank said thebonds would yield 9.28 pct at the issue price and would be freeof tax to residents overseas. The issue would be designated8-3/4 pct Treasury Loan 1997 "B."  A further 100 mln stg wasreserved for the National Debt Commissioners.
    The market dropped by up to 1/2 point following the Bank'sannouncement, with the Treasury 13-1/2 pct stock due 2004/08quoted one full point lower at 134-12/32 stg pct around 20minutes after the news.    Dealers said the announcement had to be viewed against thebackdrop of intense pressure for lower U.K. Interest rateswhich had built up over the past two weeks as a result ofsterling's strength.    The Bank this morning finally signalled it was prepared tosee lower rates and U.K. Clearing banks this afternoonannounced cuts in their base lending rates to 10.
5 pct from 11pct.    The Bank had initially been reluctant to countenance a ratecut because, dealers said, the authorities had wished to delaya reduction until around the time of the U.K. Budget on March17, thereby preserving the full impact of Chancellor of theExchequer Nigel Lawson's package of measures.    However, in the face of sterling's apparently inexorableclimb, the authorities today decided to cede to pressure andallow a half-point cut.
    Today's one billion stg tap issue was viewed by the marketas a move by the Bank to eradicate hopes for a further earlyrate cut which might arise as a result of strong sterling.    Most market participants believe that Lawson will nowfoster a further half point interest rate reduction at the timeof the budget, although one or two said they would not besurprised to see a full point decline at this stage.    Dealers noted that as part of the authorities' attemptslast week to ease pressure for lower rates, the Bank had issueda one billion stg tap stock with a view to subduing theGovernment bond market.
    To the surprise of most participants, the issue was soldout within hours of becoming available for trading and themarket pushed on to register further sharp gains.    Dealers said that at this stage it seemed unlikely that theissue announced today would be absorbed by the market asrapidly as last week's.    However, they noted that although sterling had edged downfrom its highs following the base rate cut, it had still closedon a trade-weighted basis at 72.
4, well ahead of Friday's final71.8 and only just beneath the peak of 72.5 touched at 1300GMT. REUTER