PRIMARY EUROSTERLING MARKET BOOMS DESPITE RATE CUT
Two new eurosterling bonds were launchedtoday, making a total of 10 new deals in the sector so far thismonth, as borrowers rush to cash in on a bull sterling marketfueled by the strength of the pound and pre-budget euphoria.    The Bank of England finally gave way to a 1/2 point cut inbanks' base lending rates earlier today, but dealers said thishad been largely discounted and was not likely to detract fromthe current popularity of sterling-denominated investments.    "Sterling, in any shape or form, is flavor of the month andwe're set to see many more eurosterling deals," one dealer said.
    Today's new eurosterling bonds were a 10-year, 100 mln stgdeal for Sweden at 9-1/2 pct and priced at 101-1/4 pct, lead byBaring Brothers and Co Ltd and a 14 year 60 mln stg convertibledeal for Storehouse Plc launched by SBCI International Ltd. "Wethought we saw a proverbial flood of new deals with the 14 wehad last month but it seems March will beat February hands downwith 10 already," one eurosterling specialist said.    "Optically, psychologically, these single figures are muchmore attractive for the borrower.
 Eurosterling looks like acheap and attractive way to raise your money," he added.    This accounts for the wide variety of borrowers who havetapped the sector recently, ranging from sovereigns such as theKingdom of Sweden today, continental banks includingCommerzbank and Deutsche Bank and British corporations.    Another U.K. Merchant bank analyst noted that the currentvogue for eurosterling enabled several corporate borrowers lastmonth to offer paper priced below comparative gilt yields.
    A Storehouse official confirmed that the issue was aimed atSwiss and German investors who were showing good interest.    This is the first entry into the long term internationalcapital markets by Storehouse, British designer TerenceConran's retail conglomerate which incorporates U.K. Chainstores Mothercare, British Home Stores and Habitat.    "We have been considering the move for quite some time nowand the current strength of the eurosterling sector providedthe perfect opportunity and spur for us to finally tap themarket," Lance Moir, corporate treasurer at Storehouse Plc toldReuters.
