U.S. URGES BANKS TO WEIGH PHILIPPINE DEBT PLAN
The U.S. is urging reluctantcommercial banks to seriously consider accepting a novelPhilippine proposal for paying its interest bill and believesthe innovation is fully consistent with its Third World debtstrategy, a Reagan administration official said.    The official's comments also suggest that debtors' pleasfor interest rate concessions should be treated much moreseriously by the commercial banks, in cases where developingnations are carrying out genuine economic reforms.    In addition, he signaled that the banks might want toreconsider the idea of a "megabank," where Third World debt wouldbe pooled, and suggested the administration would support sucha plan, even though it was not formally proposing it.
 At thesame time, however, the official expressed reservations thatsuch a scheme would ever get off the ground.    The Philippine proposal, together with Argentinesuggestions that "exit bonds" be issued to end the troublesomerole of small banks in the debt strategy, would help tounderpin the flagging role of private banks within the plan,the official said in an interview with Reuters.    "All of these things would fit within the definition of ourinitiative as we have asked it and we think any novel andunique approach such as those should be considered," said theofficial, who asked not to be named.
    In October 1985, Washington outlined a debt crisis strategyunder which commercial banks and multilateral institutions suchas the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF)were urged to step up lending to major debtors nations.    In return, America called on the debtor countries to enacteconomic reforms promoting inflation-free economic growth.    "The multilaterals have been performing well, the debtorshave been performing well," said the official.
 But he admittedthat the largest Third World debtor, Brazil, was clearly anexception.    The official, who played a key role in developing the U.S.Debt strategy and is an administration economic policymaker,also said these new ideas would help commercial banks improvetheir role in resolving the Third World debt crisis.    "We called at the very beginning for the bank syndicationsto find procedures or processes whereby they could operate moreeffectively," the official said.
    Among those ideas, the official said, were suggestions thatcommercial banks create a "megabank" which could swap Third Worlddebt paper for so-called "exit bonds" for banks like regionalAmerican or European institutions.    Such bonds in theory would rid these banks of the need tolend money to their former debtors every time a new moneypackage was assembled, and has been suggested by Argentina inits current negotiations for a new loan of 2.15 billion dlrs.
    He emphasised that the "megabank" was not an administrationplan but "something some people have suggested."    Other U.S. Officials said Japanese commercial banks areexamining the creation of a consortium bank to assume ThirdWorld debt. This plan, actively under consideration, woulddiffer slightly from the one the official described.
    But the official expressed deep misgivings that such a planwould work in the United States.    "If the banks thought that that was a suitable way to go,fine. I don't think they ever will.
"    He pointed out that banks would swap their Third Worldloans for capital in the megabank and might then be reluctantto provide new money to debtors through the new institution.    Meanwhile, the official praised the Philippine plan underwhich it would make interest payments on its debt in cash at nomore than 5/8 pct above Libor.    "The Philippine proposal is very interesting, it's quiteunique and I don't think it's something that should becategorically rejected out of hand," the official said.
    Banks which found this level unacceptably low would beoffered an alternative of Libor payments in cash and a marginabove that of one pct in the form of Philippine InvestmentNotes.    These tradeable, dollar-denominated notes would have asix-year life and if banks swapped them for cash beforematurity, the country would guarantee a payment of 7/8 pointover Libor.    Until now, bankers have criticised these spreads as far toolow.
 The talks, now in their second week, are aimed atstretching out repayments of 3.6 billion dlrs of debt andgranting easier terms on 5.8 billion of already rescheduleddebt.
 The country, which has enjoyed strong political supportin Washington since Corazon Aquino came to power early lastyear, owes an overall 27.8 billion dlrs of debt.    But the official denied the plan amounts to interest ratecapitalisation, a development until now unacceptable to thebanks.
 "It's no more interest rate capitalisation than if youhave a write down in the spread over Libor from what existedbefore," the official said in comments suggesting some ought tobe granted the rate concessions they seek. "Some people arguethat (cutting the spread) is debt forgiveness..
. What it reallyis is narrowing the spread on new money," he added.    He said the U.S. Debt strategy is sufficiently broad as aninitiative to include plans like the Philippines'.
 Reuter