NATIONAL SAVINGS MOVE POINTS TO LOWER U.K. RATES
U.K. Interest rates look set to movelower even after Monday's half-point cut in bank base rates to10-1/2 pct, analysts said, citing as evidence the suspension ofa British National Savings issue yesterday.    The Department of National Savings, effectively a TreasuryDepartment unit, yesterday suspended its 32nd issue, launchedin October and paying a high tax-free 8-3/4 pct on five-yearprivate investments between 25 and 5,000 stg. A spokesman saidthe suspension was just a reaction to yields on nationalsavings bonds being way out of line with the rest of themarket.
    The move was followed by a surprise sell-out within minutestoday of a Bank of England one-billion stg tap issue, thesecond such issue in as many weeks, analysts noted.    They said the near-instant sale of the entire new giltsissue, for which the Bank of England had required a high 40 pctdownpayment, was clear evidence that the market thought rateshad to drop sooner rather than later.    The sale of the tranche of 8-3/4 pct treasury bonds due1997 occurred in an active, bullish gilts market as downwardpressure on money market rates remained intact, with thebellwether three-month interbank rate down 1/8 point at10-9-7/8 pct.
     It coincided with another strong sterling rally whichpushed the pound to four-year highs against the dollar.    "That government stock disappeared very quickly indeed," saidStephen Lewis, head of economic research at stockbrokersPhillips and Drew; "It is an indication that the market believesrates are going to fall further ..
. At least by a half-pointimmediately after the budget (on March 17), and some peoplehope for more."    Stockbrokers James Capel said in a comment the move by theNational Savings Department was "of considerable significance.
"    It said, "the real message ...
 Is that the decks are beingquickly cleared so as to facilitate a speedy decision by thebuilding societies to cut their rates when the inevitable cutin bank base rates to 10 pct materialises."    Building societies have said a drop in bank base rateswould normally have to exceed half a point to give rise to areduction in mortgage lending rates.    Lewis of Phillips and Drew said he too believed theNational Savings issue suspension may reflect new U.K. Treasurypolicy to point building societies towards a mortgage rate cut.
    "National Savings has been competing too effectively withthe building societies of late. Building society income hasbeen depressed in recent months," he said.    He and other analysts said Chancellor of the ExchequerNigel Lawson was keen to see mortgage rates fall to keep a lidon U.K. Inflation.
    Underlying upward pressure on prices is stronger in Britainthan in most other Western economies with inflation seen risingwell above four pct this year and above five pct in 1988 afterlast year's 3.7 pct.    Emphasising the impact of mortgage rates on consumerprices, Lewis said a one-point cut in building society rateswould reduce inflation in Britain by about 0.
4 pct.    But Lewis and others noted that building societies had beencomplaining to the government about intense competition fromNational Savings, which they argued reduced the scope for earlymortgage rate cuts.    "The Chancellor need not be worried about losing some PSBRfunding from National Savings, but he must be taking thebuilding societies' criticism to heart.
 It looks like theNational Savings move reflects this," one senior dealer said.    A Savings Department spokesman refused to comment on thisinterpretation, saying the suspension of the issue was merely areaction to the recent fall in U.K. Interest rates, which hadpushed yields on national savings bonds way out of line withthe rest of the market.    "We are not politically motivated .
.. Funding was justbecoming too expensive and we don't need all that money," hetold Reuters, adding the department had suspended issues atleast twice in the past, when offered interest rates were aboveor below market rates.
    He said demand for the issue had risen sharply of late asU.K. Money market rates continued their steady decline andincome was threatening to overshoot an unofficial three billionstg target set for fiscal 1986 ending March 31.    In the first 10 months of fiscal 1986, National Saving'scontribution to government funding totalled 2.72 billion stg,compared with 2.
01 billion stg in the same period of theprevious year, official figures show.    Figures for February, out on Monday, are expected to show afurther increase of between 300 and 400 mln stg, pushing thetotal for 11 months above target, government officials said. REUTER