U.S. ECONOMIC DATA KEY TO DEBT FUTURES OUTLOOK
U.S. economic data this week could bethe key in determining whether U.S. interest rate futures breakout of a 3-1/2 month trading range, financial analysts said.    Although market expectations are for February U.S. retailsales Thursday and industrial production Friday to show healthygains, figures within or slightly below expectations would bepositive for the market, the analysts said.    "You have to be impressed with the resiliency of bondsright now," said Smith Barney Harris Upham analyst CraigSloane.
    Treasury bond futures came under pressure today whichtraders linked to a persistently firm federal funds rate and arise in oil prices. However, when sufficient selling interestto break below chart support in the June contract failed tomaterialize, participants who had sold bond futures earlyquickly covered short positions, they said.    "Everyone is expecting strong numbers, and if they come inas expected it won't be that bad for the market," Sloane said.
    Sloane said the consensus estimate for the non-auto sectorof retail sales is for a rise of 0.6 to 0.7 pct.
    Dean Witter analyst Karen Gibbs said a retail sales figurebelow market forecasts would give a boost to debt futures, andshe put the range for the non-auto sector of retail sales at up0.8 to 1.2 pct.
    Industrial production and the producer price index Fridayboth are expected to show increases of about 0.5 pct, sheadded.    Retail sales "will tell us whether or not we will be ableto fill the gap," Gibbs said, referring to a chart gap in Junebonds between 100-26/32 and 101-3/32 created Friday.
 June bondsclosed at 100-4/32 today.    Also key to debt futures direction, in addition to thefederal funds rate, is the direction of crude oil prices, saidCarroll McEntee and McGinley Futures analyst Brian Singer.    "A higher fed funds rate and firm oil prices precluded themarket from breaking out of the trading range the last time themarket approached the top of the range," Singer said.
    In order for bonds to break above the top of the range,which is just below 102 in the June contract, "the crude oilrally needs to run its course and pull back a little bit,"Singer said. "Fed funds are already easing back down toward thesix pct level."    The recent surge in oil prices has also been a concern toManufacturers Hanover Futures analyst Jim Rozich, but the rallymay be nearing a top around 18.
50 dlrs per barrel, he said.    Rozich said he is looking for the June bond contract toease to 99-6/32 and find support.    "I'm not quite ready to jump on the bullish bandwagon yet.
The jury is still out this week," Rozich said. Reuter