FED SEEN CONTENT WITH U.S. FEBRUARY ECONOMY
U.S. February reports reflecting slimgains in industrial output and moderating inflation pressuresreinforced expectations that the Federal Reserve will continueto follow a stable course of monetary policy, economists said.    "If you're the Fed, there's no reason to do anything," saidSteve Slifer of Lehman Government Securities Inc.    "There are hints that GNP is picking up.
 On the inflationfront, all is well," he said. "Money supply is well undercontrol. It's an absolutely ideal situation.
"    February U.S. industrial production rose 0.5 pct, slightlyless than the 0.7 pct gain the financial markets had expected.
This compared with a slim 0.1 pct rise in January's productionnumber, previously reported as a 0.4 pct increase.
    The February U.S. producer price index gained only 0.1 pct,less than a 0.3-0.
4 pct expected rise. This followed a 0.6 pctrise in the PPI in January.
    "The Fed is going to look at this positively," said AllanLeslie of Discount Corporation. "Certainly inflation is not asbad as what Volcker (Fed Chairman) has said lately. Industrialproduction growth is along the lines of what the Fed wants.
"    The energy products component of PPI rose 4.0 pct inFebruary, after a 9.8 pct increase in January.
    "This shows that the impact of energy prices on inflationis behind us in terms of the move from 15 dlrs to 18 dlrs perbarrel," said Maria Ramirez of Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. "Thetrend is still 3.5 pct in the first half of the year.
"    In 1986, declining energy prices contributed to a 2.5 pctdecline in the PPI.    Economists said that a rise in energy prices was expected,but a sharp drop in auto prices was not. Passenger car pricesfell 3.
4 pct and light truck prices dropped 1.3 pct.    Yesterday, Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker said thata possibility of renewed inflation remains a concern in boththe financial markets and the Federal Reserve.
    "The Fed may be lowering its own inflation expectationstoday," said Robert Brusca of Nikko Securities International.    While low inflation permits the Fed to maintain an easiermonetary policy, Brusca said if import prices do not rise thiscould necessitate a weaker dollar.    "The outlook for the dollar is still up in the air," hesaid.
 "We need inflation for U.S. producers to compete withforeign producers."    Brusca said prices of electronic equipment dropped 0.8 pctin February's PPI. With many electronic goods producedoverseas, this may show that foreign producers are not raisingprices which bodes ill for U.S. competitiveness, he said.
    If further dollar declines are needed, this could diminishoverseas investment in U.S. debt, Brusca added, which mightnecessitate higher interest rates and lower bond prices.    By contrast, Slifer said imported goods prices rose 11.8pct from first quarter 1985 to first quarter 1986 reflecting toa large degree a 22 pct drop in the trade-weighted real valueof the dollar from February 1985 to February 1987.
    Slifer said import prices may rise further asmanufacturers' contracts put in place before the dollar droppedto current levels expire, and new contracts are made thatreflect a weaker dollar.    David Wyss of Data Resources Inc noted that importedmanufactured goods prices rose 8.5 pct at an annual rate in thesecond half of 1986, which has contributed to rising U.S.industrial output.
    "It's the other side of the lower dollar," Wyss said."Producers are beginning to find themselves more competitiveand they are increasing output."    Wyss said that the latest data point to an averageindustrial production gain of 0.
3-0.4 pct in the first quarter."It's an encouraging sign that the manufacturing sector isbeginning to revive.
"    But Stephen Roach of Morgan Stanley and Co Inc was not convinced that the February reports portend economic gains. Hesaid much of the strength came from factors that do not pointto a sustained rise in industrial output.    Roach pointed out that stikers returning to work in farmequipment industries helped account for a one pct rise inFebruary business equipment production.
    Utilities output rose 0.7 pct in February after gaining 1.2pct in January, but Roach said it shows mostly that more energywas produced, not that manufacturing activity gained.
    Finally, he pointed out that auto production accounted forhalf of the industrial production gain as production of autoassemblies rose to 8.3 million units at an annual rate from 7.5million units.
    "In the first quarter, it looks like automakers areproducing at an 8.5 mln unit annual rate, but selling atroughly a seven mln unit rate," Roach said. "The disparitybetween output and sales is showing up in inventories.
"    Economists pointed to sharp rise in January U.S. businessinventories as a sign that production may be outstrippingdemand in the first quarter of 1987.    January business inventories rose 0.9 pct, the largest gainsince July 1979 when inventories rose 1.
7 pct, the CommerceDepartment said. Business sales dropped 4.5 pct in January, thelargest monthly sales drop on record.
    Nonetheless, economists do not expect the Fed to react tomonth-to-month changes. "The Fed has been standing pat for thelast seven months," Ramirez said. "They will continue to standpat for at least the next couple of months.
" Reuter