TRADING RANGE LIKELY TO CONTINUE IN DEBT FUTURES
U.S. economic data due out next week isunlikely to hold any surprises that will shake U.S. interestrate futures out of their relatively narrow trading range ofthe last 3-1/2 months, financial analysts said.    "People don't seem to have any firm conviction about thecurrent strength of the economy or about the Federal Reservedoing anything," said Drexel Burnham Lambert analyst NormanMains.    The narrow range trading is also taking its toll on tradingvolume, he noted.
 "We've had a decline in activity as recenteconomic statistics have not greatly changed people'sviewpoints on interest rates," Mains said.    The data, which has provided not clear-cut view of theeconomy, coupled with dampened activity in the foreign exchangemarkets after the Paris initiative has made for "less thanebullient market action," Mains said.    He added, however, that Treasury bond futures could be infor a retracement after the recent rise as they are near thetop of the trading range.
    "My view is that the economy remains relatively strong andmarket participants will see that current prices areunjustified," Mains said.    Refco Inc senior vice president Michael Connery also notedthat the market is showing very little momentum and lacksretail interest. "All of the movement occurs at the opening,"afterwhich volume dwindles and momentum fades, Connery said.
    Although data during the week was mildly positive for bondprices, the small rise in February producer prices and downwardrevisions in January retail sales and industrial productionwere "not real exciting," said Prudential Bache analyst FredLeiner.    "There is no one factor that will push us through the highsat this moment," Leiner said.    Next week's revision to fourth quarter U.S. Gross nationalProduct is also likely to be of little interest to the market,said Kleinwort Benson chief financial economist Sam Kahan.
Still, forecasts for first quarter GNP could play a role in thedirection of bond prices over the next month.    Kahan said his early estimate for first quarter growth isaround three pct, due largely to a buildup in inventoriesreflected in the January inventory data Friday, which showedthe largest increase since 1979.    "The key question will be not whether there is a largeincrease in first quarter GNP, but whether any increase issustainable or a one shot deal," Kahan said.
    He said that a sizable increase in first quarter GNPstemming from an increase in inventories will be a drag onsecond quarter growth.    If that is the case, GNP in the second quarter could easeback to a one to two pct growth rate, Kahan said. Reuter