PHILIPPINES SEES 1987 GOVERNMENT REVENUE UP 26 PCT
Philippine government revenue isexpected to rise 26 pct to 99.9 billion pesos this year from79.1 billion in 1986, Finance Secretary Jaime Ongpin said.
    In a report to President Corazon Aquino on his department'sperformance during the year ended February 28, Ongpin said atleast 15.9 billion pesos were expected to accrue from new taxreform measures announced last year.    He said the goal for official development assistance (ODA)this year is two billion dlrs, adding that aid donors havecommitted ODA inflows of 1.
7 billion dlrs in 1987, up 30 pctfrom 1.3 billion in 1986.    Ongpin said steps planned to provide a sound revenue baseincluded a value added tax (VAT) system due to be introduced in1988.
 He gave no other details.    He said treasury bill maturities, interest rate levels andthe volume of government securities sold to the private sectorhave improved significantly. "In particular, short-term primeinterest rates which had gone over 40 pct in 1985, are now downto less than 10 pct," he said.
    Ongpin said the government's debt-equity scheme, introducedin August last year, had attracted more than 276 mln dlrs worthof applications, but selective evaluation had resulted inapprovals of only 61.8 mln dlrs at end-February.    He said his department aims to accelerate its privatisationprogram and the sale of non-performing assets owned byassociates of former President Ferdinand Marcos to achieve a1987 sales target of four billion pesos which would helpfinance land reform.
    Aquino said earlier this month that all the 24 billionpesos the government hopes to raise from the sale of the failedcompanies will be used to finance the land reform plan.    Ongpin also said the government would pursue efforts toobtain 500 mln dlrs in concessional funding for the programfrom a World Bank-led consultative group of multilateral andbilateral aid donors.    The government has said the land reform plan aims todistribute 9.
7 mln hectares of land to poor peasants. REUTER