ANALYSTS SEE EARLY ONE POINT CUT IN U.K. BASE RATE
British bank base lending rates arelikely to fall by as much as one full point to 9-1/2 pct thisweek following the sharp three billion stg cut in the U.K.Central government borrowing target to four billion stg set intoday's 1987 budget, bank analysts said.    The analysts described Chancellor of the Exchequer NigelLawson's budget as cautious, a quality which currency and moneymarkets had already started to reward.    Sterling surged on foreign exchange markets and moneymarket interest rates moved sharply lower as news of the budgetmeasures came through, the analysts said.
    Lloyds merchant bank chief economist Roger Bootle said heexpected base rates to be cut by one full point tomorrow.    "This is very much a safety-first budget in order to getinterest rates down," he said.    Bootle said the money markets had almost entirelydiscounted such a one point cut, with the key three monthinterbank rate down to 9-11/16 pct from 9-13/16 last night, andit would be rather conservative for banks to go for ahalf-point cut now.
    Midland Bank treasury economist David Simmonds said he,too, expected base rates would be a full point lower by Friday,but this would likely happen via two half-point cuts.    "This budget is designed to please both the markets and theelectorate. The implications for interest rates are veryfavourable, we could have a half-point cut tomrorow and anothersuch cut before the end of the week," Simmonds said.
    Pointing to buoyant U.K. Retail data released yesterday, hesaid Lawson had done well to resist pressures for a sharp cutin income tax rates at the expense of a lower borrowing target."There is no real need to boost private consumption," he said.    National Westminster Bank chief economist David Kern saidthe lower borrowing target set in the budget had increased thelikelihood of an early one-point base rate cut.
    Kern said the budget would have to be analysed carefully,in particular to see how exactly Lawson planned to achieve thesharper than expected borrowing target cut, before a one-pointbase rate cut could be implemented. But providing the budget small-print was convincing, "and Isuspect it will be, it is entirely possible that we see onepoint off base rates by the end of this week," Kern said.    Bootle of Lloyds said the expected base rate cut would pavethe way for an early one-point cut in mortgage lending rates.
This would help achieve Lawson's lower than expected consumerprice inflation target of four pct at end-1987, he said.    U.K. Base rates were cut last week to 10-1/2 pct from 11pct after sustained pressure from the foreign exchange, moneyand government bonds (gilts) markets.    But building societies said they would not cut lendingrates until base rates had fallen by one full point.
 REUTER