ANALYSTS SAY U.K. BUDGET POINTS TO BASE RATE CUTS
Chancellor of the Exchequer NigelLawson's Budget speech was described as sound and well balancedby analysts, if slightly lacking in excitement.    A cut in bank base lending rates is now widely expectedtomorrow, with most forecasts predicting a half-point fall. Afollow-up half-point cut is anticipated next week.
    "Worthy but boring would probably sum it up," Peter Fellner,U.K. Economist at stockbrokers James Capel and Co, said. "It wasa very, very prudent fiscal budget."    Richard Jeffrey of brokers Hoare Govett said it was awell-balanced budget within the confines of the government'sphilosophy of keeping expenditure levels flat.
    Most analysts said the Budget was very sound on the fiscalside, but offered nothing new on monetary policy.    As was widely expected, Lawson split his "fiscal adjustment"between trimming the 1987/88 PSBR target to 4.0 billion stgfrom 7.
1 billion and cutting basic rate income tax from 29 to27 pct.    The target for the narrow measure of money supply, M0, waskept unchangd at two to six pct, while the target for the broadSterling M3 aggregate was dropped.    Both Jeffrey and Fellner said the budget clears the way fora half-point fall in U.K. Base rates tomorrow, but theauthorities are unlikely to sanction a larger cut immediately.
Many analysts and currency dealers have forecast a fullone-point cut tomorrow.    "The Bank of England will be loathe to take any action whichit will have to reverse later," Jeffrey said, though he added afurther half-point cut was quite possible in the near future.    The main worry from today's speech is the outlook forinflation, given the signs of relaxed monetary policy containedin it, Scrimgeour Vickers economist Richard Holt said.
    Holt noted the "rather loose" inflation forecast of 4.0 pctat end-1987, and said the lower interest rates likely to resultfrom the tough fiscal stance could cause longer term concern.    "A higher PSBR target could be preferable in the long term,"he said, although lower mortgage interest rates on the back offalling base rates would have an offsetting impact oninflation.
    The Budget will inspire a lot of short-term confidence butit was "not a good budget for inflation," he said    Jeffrey said he would have liked Lawson to say more aboutthe dangers of excessive liquidity build-up but overall was nottoo concerned about a revival of inflation.    Fellner noted that the exchange rate was to remain the"leading edge" of monetary policy, but said the authorities werelikely to be extremely cautious on this front.    He said they were unlikely to hesitate in holding interestrates steady or even raising them again if sterling showed anysigns of excessive weakness.
    Most analysts agreed Lawson had bolstered the credibilityof the Budget by adopting realistic forecasts.    Raising the forecast for the current account deficit from1.5 to 2.
5 billion stg for 1987 would not unsettle the markets,which are already discounting that amount, Jeffrey said.that the 4.0 billion stg PSBR target was given credibility bythe favourable outturn for 1986/87, which is now also forecastto be 4.
0 billion stg.    But analysts said the Budget speech did not give anyclear-cut indication about the timing of the general election,which has to be held before June, 1988.    Some believe it signals a poll this June, noting that thebenefits, such as income tax cuts and the decision not to raiseduties on alcohol and tobacco, become available immediately.
    But others said it kept several options open and it was notpossible to deduce too much from it.    James Capel's Fellner noted that by being fiscally prudent,Lawson had kept open the possibility of an autumn election inthat there would be no "chickens coming home to roost."    Richard Jeffrey, who favours the likelihood of a Juneelection, said it was important the Chancellor had not gone fora Budget aimed overtly at buying an election victory.
    Nevertheless, he said, it was likely to result in a boostto the Conservative Party's pre-election popularity. REUTER