THAI BANKS WEIGH NEW INTEREST RATE CUT
Officials of five Thai commercial banksare expected to meet tomorrow to seek agreement on cuttinginterest rates, banking sources said.    They said they expect Thai banks to opt for a cut to spurdomestic loan demand to help reduce persistent high liquidityon the money market.    Many bankers have been urging an average half percentagepoint cut in deposit rates and a one point cut in lendingrates, they said.
    Six major Thai major banks reduced minimum loan andoverdraft rates by 0.50 to 0.75 percentage point on February 16but the move has not substantially increased loan demand, thesources said.
    Excess liquidity has been hitting bank profits since earlylast year despite five interest rate cuts in 1986. The currentgross 7.25 pct interest rate for one-year fixed bank depositand the 11.
5 pct minimum loan rate are the lowest in a decade.    Bankers said the Thai banking system is saddled with about40 to 50 billion baht of surplus funds which have createdproblems for many banks in managing their money effectively.    Profits of many Thai banks fell sharply last year partlybecause of a mismatch of loan demand and bank deposit growth.
The Bank of Thailand estimated overall lending by the Thaibanking system grew 3.8 pct in 1986 against a 12 pct expansionin bank deposits.    Reports of a possible new round of interest rate cuts havefurther buoyed the Thai stock market this week.
    The Securities Exchange of Thailand (SET) Index on Mondayrecorded its biggest daily advance in recent years, shooting up4.57 points to a new seven-year high of 223.02.
    Brokers and market analysts said Thai stocks will registermore gains as long as liquidity remains in the money market.    Thai and foreign bankers said the liquidity problem willgrow if the Bank of Thailand does not extend permission forlocal banks to hold foreign exchange positions up to 40 pct ofbank capital.    If the regulation is not extended beyond its April 3 expirydate, many commercial banks will have to reduce foreignexchange holdings to a maximum 20 pct.
    Bankers said such that could add another five billion bahtof surplus funds to the local money market. REUTER