U.K. BASE RATES WILL FALL AGAIN SOON, SAY ANALYSTS
Today's modest half-point cut in U.K.Bank base lending rates to 10 pct signals the Bank of England'sdetermination to maintain a cautious monetary stance, butfinancial markets appear set to force its hand, analysts said.    They said a further half-point cut in base rates to 9-1/2pct was bound to occur within the next week and rates may sheda further half point soon if markets remain buoyant.    Earlier, markets were bracing for a one-point cut in ratesafter yesterday's budget set a sharp three billion stgreduction in 1987 government borrowing targets to four billionstg.
    Sterling money market rates moved lower again, with the keythree-month interbank rate down to 9-5/8 1/2 pct at the startof business from 9-11/16 9/16 yesterday, and sterling ralliedto four-year highs against the dollar in very active trading.    Government bond prices also surged on the budget, withgains in excess of one point pushing yields on long-term paperbelow nine pct for the first time in nearly a year.    But today's smaller than expected rate cut appeared to haveplacated markets for now, analysts said.
 Money market ratesrecovered up to 1/4 point from earlier lows while both sterlingand gilts came off highs as trading ground to a near halt.    Analysts said the slowdown was likely to be temporary, andthe reappraisal of sterling assets by international investorswas set to resume as early as tomorrow, leading to higher giltprices, exchange rate advances and lower money market rates.    "Today's cut was slightly disappointing," said Bill Martin,chief U.K. Economist at stockbrokers Phillips and Drew.
 "TheBank of England is taking a very cautious line ...
 To temperthe markets' first rush of blood to the head after the budget."    Analysts said the bank's move today to lend two-week cashto U.K. Discount houses at a lower 10 pct suggested it hoped tomaintain the new rates for about that period of time.    The analysts agreed success would depend largely on howsterling performs in the near term.
    Sharp rises in the pound's value could be checked initiallythrough Bank of England intervention but eventually the gainswould force the bank to cut interest rates rates again.    "The market seems to have accepted the modest cut for thetime being," said Midland Bank treasury economist DavidSimmonds. "But I am sceptical that the bank will be able to holdup rates for long.
"    Simmonds said he saw sterling rising another two U.S. Centsthis week from around 1.60 dlrs, forcing a rate cut by Friday.    Robin Marshall, chief economist at Chase ManhattanSecurities, said "There is another half point to come in thenear term, this week or next week at the latest.
..We see awhole point off base rates in the next two or three weeks.
"    Analysts stressed that apart from prestige, Britain hadvery little to gain from a sharp rise in sterling's exchangerate.    Martin, of Phillips and Drew, said the dampening effect ofa sterling rise on consumer price inflation would notmaterialise for at least nine months while its hampering impacton manufactured exports would show almost immediately.    Analysts said the budget, featuring income tax cuts as wellas cautious plans for public finances, had improved the chancesof re-election for the Conservative government and probablyadvanced the election date.
 One must be held before June, 1988.Combined with overall good prospects for the U.K. Economy, thiswas likely to fuel a foreign rush on sterling-denominatedassets, pushing the pound's value well above unofficialtargets.    With mark-denominated investments largely out of favourbecause of low yields and a dull economic outlook, Chase'sMarshall said "Sterling is simply the best game in town,especially after the budget, and demand will remain strong.
" REUTER