VOLATILITY LIKELY TO REMAIN LOW IN DEBT FUTURES
Financial analysts see little chancethat U.S. interest rate futures will break out of their narrowranges and low volatility during the remainder of the week.    "We got a little volatility Wednesday," said StaleyCommodities International analyst Jerome Lacey. "But for themoment we're still in a trading range.
"    Even unexpected developments concerning the growth of theU.S. economy may not be enough to spur the market out of itssluggish state, the analysts said.    "It (the bond market) has not yet demonstrated that it canbreak out of its very low volatility," said Carroll McEntee andMcGinley analyst Denis Karnosky. "It needs something, but it'snot going to be news about the economy," he said.
    Karnosky said that the bond market will possibly break outof the doldrums if participants perceive that the dollar hasstabilized and the Federal Reserve has more room to conductmonetary policy.    But even Wednesday, when fed funds were below six pct, thedollar strong and oil on the soft side, bond futures attractedeager sellers when contracts approached recent highs, he said.    In addition to a changing perception about the dollar andmonetary policy, Golden Gate Futures president Norman Quinnsaid the beginning of April could bring foreign investors backinto the marketplace.
    "The market is beginning to feel there may be demand at thebeginning of the fiscal year in Japan on April 1," Quinn said.    Quinn echoed the sentiment of many analysts that there arelarge amounts of cash waiting to be invested. If Japaneseinvestment in U.S. securities does materialize at the start ofJapan's fiscal year, domestic funds may also flow into the bondmarket, he said.
    "We could get a stiff rally, possibly enough to bringyields on long bonds down to seven to 7-1/8 pct," compared tothe current yield of about 7.5 pct, Quinn said.    In the meantime, even the prospect of new supply is notlikely to move futures.
    The Treasury's announcement of a 15 billion dlr refundingoperation did little to move cash government securities priceslate Wednesday after the close of futures.    "I'd be surprised if supply pushed us out of it (thetrading range)," Lacey said. Reuter