GERMAN BOND YIELDS SEEN FALLING IN NEAR TERM
West German bond yields could declineover the next few months if recent efforts to stabilizeexchange rates, as seen in last month's Paris pact, extend tokeeping down European interest rates, banking economists said.    But in the longer term domestic yields could rise underagreements to stimulate West Germany's economy, they said.    The Paris agreement has so far successfully stabilizedcurrencies with the threat of central bank intervention,economists said.
    Economists speculated that G-7 countries may try to bolsterthe pact by uncoupling U.S. and West German interest ratesfurther when they meet for the IMF Interim Committee in April."The recent round of monetary accommodation by the Bundesbankand the Bank of Japan and the firming of the Federal Funds rateare significant. They mark an uncoupling of movements in U.S.and foreign interest rates," Salomon Bros Inc said in a recentstudy.
    It said narrowing of international interest rate spreadswas a major factor in the dollar's fall. These spreads willhave to be widened if the dollar is to be stabilized.    West German Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl encouragedthe U.S. not to cut interest rates in January when theBundesbank cut its own rates by half a point, to avoidweakening the dollar.
    West German economists see room for further cuts in leadingWest German rates if the dollar resumes its decline.    "It's not a taboo," Peter Pietsch, spokesman for CommerzbankAG said.    But most economists see room for a cut in West German ratesonly in the first half of the year, as re-emerging inflationwill limit room for manoeuvre later in the year.
    The Bundesbank's average yield of public paper is alreadynearing last year's low. Last week, yields fell to around 5.50pct, not far from the 1986 low of 5.
35 pct posted in mid-April. Economists said the trend may cause domestic investors toshift some funds from short to longer-term paper. Such a movewould tend to flatten the yield curve between short andlong-term rates, which has become more pronounced since theBundesbank lowered its discount rate.
    It might also facilitate a further cut in leading rates, asthe shift out of savings accounts into securities would slowgrowth of the Bundesbank's central bank money stock aggregate.    But conflicting with this trend are plans to increase WestGerman tax cuts, part of the Paris currency pact designed tomeet U.S. demands for faster West German growth. This move mayforce interest rates up by creating a revenue vacuum which mustbe filled by higher government borrowing.
    This may not occur if private sector demand for creditremains weak, but demand could emerge if rates begin rising.    Economists said it appeared the government had alreadystepped up borrowing this year to accomodate revenue loss fromother sources, including tax losses resulting from weaker thanexpected economic growth, and higher than expected spending.    Josef Koerner, chief economist of the West GermanIfo-Institut, said in a newspaper interview he expected 1987tax revenue to be some 11 billion marks below estimates by theWest German government in November.
    Any tax shortfall in itself is unlikely to push yields up.But coupled with other factors such as waning foreignspeculative buying of mark bonds on the dollar's decline, longterm yields may to have to rise, economists said.    Public authority borrowing in 1988 may also rise owing toincreases in the second phase of Bonn's tax reform package.
    The West German government is raising its total tax cuts in1988 by 5.2 billion marks to 14.4 billion.
    West German chancellor Helmut Kohl said last week increasedborrowing to finance the tax reform is acceptable.    Finance minister Gerhard Stoltenberg said last Thursday hewas looking for other ways to finance the reform, such asraising indirect taxes.    But few economists believe the government will be able togo through with its tax measures without increasing netborrowing.
    The Bundesbank said in its February report that it waswrong to believe that the first stage of the tax reform in 1986could be managed without increasing deficits.    The Bundesbank said West German public authorities borroweda large 21.9 billion marks in credit markets in the 1986 finalquarter compared with 14.
8 billion in fourth quarter 1985.    The federal government took up nearly 10 billion marks ofthe fourth quarter 1986 figures, and also drew on two billionmarks of Bundesbank advances at the end of the year, when ithad not required such a credit in the 1985 quarter. Reuter