ANALYSTS SEE SLOW MOVE TO HIGHER U.S. PRIME RATE
Quarter-point prime rate increases to7-3/4 pct by Citibank and Chase Manhattan Bank today will befollowed by other banks only after they see clearer signs ofthe Federal Reserve's policy intentions, economists said.    "Based on the spread between banks' cost of funds and theprime rate, it probably makes sense for others to follow, butno rush is likely," said Paul McCulley of E.F. Hutton and Co.    Citibank's surprise base rate increase, quickly followed byChase, sent U.S. bond prices lower and the dollar higher.
    McCulley said that once the spread between three-monthcertificates of deposit and the prime rate narrows to less than1-1/2 percentage points, there is a strong chance of a primerate increase. It has been under 1-1/4 points recently.    However, banks are likely to hold rate increases until theysee what the Fed intends to do about interest rates in the nearterm, analysts said.
 They noted that banks historically like tofollow Fed rate movements, rather than lead them. For example,the last prime rate increase occurred in June 1984 when bankslifted the rate to 13 pct from 12-1/2 pct after a Fed discountrate increase in April of that year.    Major banks had been posting a 7-1/2 pct prime rate sincelast August 26/27, when they lowered the rate from eight pctshortly after the Fed's half-point discount rate cut to thecurrent 5-1/2 pct level on August 20.
    "The banks will not rush to raise their prime rates. Thereshould be a split prime for a while with some posting a 7-1/2pct rate and others 7-3/4 pct," said David Jones of Aubrey G.Lanston and Co.    Jones said the Federal Open Market Committee at today'smeeting voted no change in Fed policy.
 But he said the Fed maywell foster higher interest rates soon.    Jones said that, while the FOMC probably voted no policychange today, it may have decided to apply slight upward ratepressure later if the dollar weakens, inflation pressures heatup or the economy shows sign of strong recovery.    "The Fed clearly indicated that they did not intend totighten policy when they did today's coupon pass," said JosephLiro of S.G. Warburg and Co.
    In a move that came a day earlier than most expected, theFed today supplied permanent reserves to the banking system byoffering to buy all maturities of Treasury notes and bonds forits own account. This seasonal reserve add is called a "pass."    "The Fed demonstrated that there has been no policychange," said Elizabeth Reiners, economist at Dean WitterReynolds Inc.
     She said the spread between banks' cost of funds and theprime rate is now around 137 basis points compared with a 153basis point average in 1986. Reiners said the spread is notreally narrow enough to present a clear need for a prime rateincrease.    The Dean Witter economist said that today's prime rate rise"may have been less a response to interest rates than anattempt to enhance the (balance sheet) bottom line.
"    Reiners said that, given recent problems with loans todeveloping countries, large money center banks with heavyexposures might be the first to match the higher prime rate inan effort to get more profitable spreads on other loans.    The Federal funds rate at which banks lend overnight moneyto one another could help determine how many banks match thehigher prime rate and also how quickly they move.    In raising their prime rates, banks cited a higher cost offunds.
 In the three business days through Monday, the Federalfunds rate at which banks lend to one another averaged nearly6-1/4 pct. But quarter end pressures helped push up funds.      The Fed funds rate was extremely volatile today, reflectingdemand pressure associated with the end of the quarter and theclose of the Japanese fiscal year.
 Funds traded between fiveand 6-3/4 pct.    Once the special distortions end, analysts said the fundsrate probably will return to its recent trading level in the6-1/8 pct area. They said that, if it stabilizes near there,banks may not quickly boost their prime rates.
    But a consistently higher funds rates would suggest to manythat the Fed was fostering somewhat higher interest rates tohelp the dollar. Then banks would lift prime rates quickly. Reuter