SEIPP SAYS GERMAN INTEREST RATES SHOULD FALL
The Bundesbank should take furthersteps to reduce German interest rates to protect the mark fromfurther appreciation and to persuade investors to bringlong-term yields lower, Commerzbank AG <CBKG.F> managementboard chairman Walter Seipp said.    But he told the bank's annual news conference this did notmean a cut in leading interest rates, rather a reduction inmoney market rates through bringing the allocation rates downfor Bundesbank securities repurchase agreements.    "Leading interest rates are not the decisive rates," he said.
"The money market rates are the important ones."    Seipp said the Bundesbank should move away from allocatingmoney market liquidity at a fixed 3.8 pct as it has in recenttender allocations.
    An easier monetary policy would not mean a loss ofcredibility for the Bundesbank in its containment of monetarygrowth. A fall in short rates would make the public aware ofthe high yields in bonds and lead to a longer-term capitalformation, braking the expansion of money supply.    "Thus, you can have lower rates and also a normalisation ofmonetary growth both at the same time," he added.
    Seipp said there were no grounds to paint too black apicture of the German economy, since company profitability hadimproved over recent years and domestic oriented firms wereprofiting from cheaper imports because of the rise in the mark.    Growth this year should be at least one pct, he said,describing the downturn in production in the first months as afalse start, unrepresentative of the rest of the year.    After an economic contraction in the first quarter, theeconomy should show an uptrend in the last three.
 "We don'tbelieve that the economy has tipped over, but see it more as a'growth dip,'" Seipp said.    But Seipp also called for support for growth from fiscalpolicy, saying the top rate of income and corporate tax shouldbe brought down to 49 pct. The current peak rate is 56 pct.
    The additional tax cuts brought forward to next Januarywere no substitute for support for growth.    Seipp added the federal government should make "furthercourageous steps to decrease the state's proportion of theGerman economy and to increase its flexibility." Reuter