FURTHER DECLINES IN U.S. DEBT FUTURES POSSIBLE
After an already steep fall in the pastweek, U.S. interest rate futures may be in for further declinesin the near term, financial analysts said.    However, some analysts said recent sharp losses in bondfutures have left the bond market somewhat oversold, and thecontracts on long-term debt could stage a recovery beforeresuming their decline.    Key to the near-term direction of futures will be thecourse of the dollar, they said.
    "As the dollar goes, so goes the bond market," said DeanWitter analyst Karen Gibbs.    The recent decline in the dollar, which hit a 40-year lowagainst the Japanese yen Monday, was reversed Wednesday whenseveral large U.S. money center banks unexpectedly raised theirprime lending rates by a quarter point, to 7-3/4 pct.    "Even though the prime rate cut was good for the dollar,foreign exchange traders are not convinced the dollar declineis over," Gibbs said.
    The dollar decline was key in recent weakness in debtfutures as it rekindled concern about a pickup in inflation.    Indeed, the falling dollar may have been a key topic at themeeting of the Federal Reserve's policy making arm, the FederalOpen Market Committee, this week, analysts said.    "To the Fed, the combination of a falling dollar, asteepening yield curve, and rising commodity prices looksuspiciously like the traces of expectations of acceleratinginflation," said Denis Karnosky, analyst at Carroll, McEnteeand McGinley Inc.
    Such expectations could mean that "a shift in policy towardrestriction of bank reserves is likely to get very seriousconsideration," at the FOMC meeting, he said.    Any such restriction of reserves will not be a highlyvisible form of monetary tightening, Karnosky said.    Rather, the key to detecting a change will be found inseasonal and adjustment borrowing at the discount window, hesaid.
 Borrowings have held near a weekly average of 300 mlndlrs over the past several months, he said.    In the meantime, however, "the market looks a bitoversold," said Jim Wysoglad, analyst at Golden Gate Futures.    Wysoglad said a recovery from the oversold condition coulddrive June bonds to a high near 99 before falling back to testchart support near the recent low of 97-13/32.
    Technician Leslie Keefe of Technical Data Corp of Bostonsaid that the key test for June bonds will be whether thenearby contract holds above chart support at 96-24/32.    "All previous selloffs since mid-November have stopped andbuyers have surfaced at that level," Keefe said.    If that level is broken, and the dollar continues todecline, Keefe said she expects the June bond contract todecline to test support between 92 and 93, the primary uptrendline dating back to 1984.
 Reuter