LAWSON REMARKS DASH HOPES OF EARLY U.K. RATE CUT
Chancellor of the Exchequer NigelLawson's remarks yesterday suggesting there are preciseexchange rate targets for the pound undermined sterling,dashing hopes for an early cut in U.K. Base rates, analystssaid.    But the market's reaction, testing exchange rate levelsindicated by Lawson, was probably overdone and the longer termoutlook for sterling remained bullish, they agreed.    In an apparent break with the previous policy of secrecy,Lawson told a National Economic Development Council meeting hewas comfortable with sterling exchange rates around currentlevels, specifying rates of around 1.
90 marks and 1.60 dlrs.    Lawson added the U.K. Government intended to keep sterlingat about present levels, using currency intervention andinterest rates to achieve this.
    The February 22 Paris agreement of the Group of Five andCanada to stabilise exchange rates is widely believed toinclude target ranges, but all participants to the meeting hadso far refused to specify these.    Markets were quick to react to the statement, choppingabout one U.S. Cent and over one pfennig off the pound to matchthe levels mentioned by Lawson.    But most analysts polled said they did not believe Lawson'sstatement signalled a change in U.K. Policy.
    Keith Skeoch, chief economist at stockbrokers James Capeland Co, said, "the remarks have been blown out of proportion.Lawson is paying now for a little bit of a slip of the tongue."    Barclays de Zoete Wedd economist Mark Brett said, "there isnothing great and fantastic in the Chancellor's statement.
"    He said he did not believe the rates indicated by theChancellor were precise targets, but merely represented centralrates around which sterling would be allowed to fluctuate,perhaps by as much as 10 pct.    "It would be insane to pinpoint an exchange rate ahead of anelection ..
. I don't believe Lawson is mad enough to tiehimself to a fixed rate," Brett said.    Currency markets were keen for official statements toclarify the scope of the Paris accord and reactivate currencytrading.
 This mood easily led to over-reaction, analysts said.    "Making similar statements when the market is high strungand ready to bounce is perhaps a mistake," one senior dealerwith a U.S. Bank said.    Capel's Skeoch said, "it gives the foreign exchange marketssomething to shoot at.
"    "It is obvious that the government, as a member of the Groupof Six, has agreed exchange rate bands. But they are not cut instone, they can change with time," Skeoch said.    Brett said, "we think the 2.
90 marks level is a centralrate. Give or take 10 pfennigs and all is fine."    Not all analysts played down the significance of theremarks, however.
 Chris Dunn, economist at Royal Bank ofCanada, said the remarks may signal a decisive move to insulatesterling from the fortunes of the dollar.    Although about two-thirds of Britain's trade is conductedwith European countries, sterling has traditionally shadowedthe dollar rather than the mark, analysts noted.    "Britain must decide whether it wants to follow the U.S. Orthrow in its lot with Europe," Dunn said.
    "It suggests that while the U.K. Is not actually applying tojoin the European Monetary System, it is seeking protection byshadowing it ...
 The Bundesbank has made it clear that it wantsthe U.K. To clarify its position relative to the mark," he said.    Analysts said sterling's dip on currency markets followingLawson's remarks made an early half-point cut in U.K. Baserates from current 10 pct levels unlikely in the short term.    "Over the next three weeks, a cut is out, unless we get someextremely good economic indicators," Capel's Skeoch said.
    Base rates have been cut twice by one-half point in March,the last after the March 17 budget presentation, and analystshad been expecting another half point cut shortly afterwards. REUTER