EYSKENS SAYS US PRIME RISES WILL AID CURRENCIES
Belgian Finance Minister Mark Eyskenswarmly welcomed this week's increase in U.S. Prime rates,calling it a move that went beyond the Group of Five and CanadaParis accord on stabilising currencies.    The rate rise would underpin economic and financial policyconvergence among major countries, he added.    In an interview with Reuters, Eyskens also made clear hebelieved the countries involved in the accord - the U.S.,Japan, West Germany, France, Britain and Canada - had agreed"tentative" fluctuation ranges for exchange rates.
    Eyskens was speaking before hosting an informal meeting ofEuropean Community finance ministers and central bank chiefs inBelgium this weekend focusing on the international monetarysituation and proposals for strengthening the European MonetarySystem (EMS).    Asked about the dollar's recent fall on currency markets,Eyskens said he believed the Paris agreement was proving "moreor less workable" despite what he called evident disagreementsover U.S. Economic and monetary policy between TreasurySecretary James Baker and Federal Reserve Chairman PaulVolcker.    Besides Baker's public statements that had dramaticallyinfluenced exchange markets, trade tensions between the U.S.AndJapan had also caused the dollar's fall, expecially against theyen, he said.
    But he expressed optimism that Washington and Tokyo couldreach a compromise in their row over semi-conductor trade. "Ithink agreement is quite possible," he said.     Eyskens said he was "very agreeably surprised" by thisweek's quarter-point increase in U.S. Prime rates despite theobvious negative consequences for debtor countries.
    "It is a positive element which goes further than the(Paris) Louvre agreement ...
It is the market taking account ofits content," he said.    He added that coordination of interest rates was afundamental element of economic and monetary convergencebetween leading industrialised economies.    "A policy of maintaining exchange rates within fluctuationranges is not possible if it is not accompanied at least by amore coordinated policy of interest rates," he said.
    Eyskens made clear he believed the G-6 countries had agreedin Paris on ranges in which to hold their currencies.    He said the end of the February 22 Louvre accord, in whichthe partners agreed to cooperate closely to foster exchangerate stability around current levels, clearly alluded to a"system of tentative (fluctuation) margins."    He added the meeting and the statement would have beenmeaningless if the G-6 had not discussed the technicalities ofimplementing it.
    Eyskens said there was growing economic convergence amongleading industrialised countries pointing towards greater orderin the international monetary system.    "That doesn't mean we are ready to restore Bretton Woods(the post-World War Two system of fixed exchange rates), butwithin the (International Monetary Fund) Interim Committee weare thinking in terms of target zones, fluctuation ranges to beimplemented and defended," he said.    The Interim Committee meets next week in Washington aheadof the IMF's Spring meetings, and Eyskens said the EC ministerswould prepare for the gatherings at this weekend's talks.
    He said he hoped for wide-ranging talks on the future ofthe EMS at the weekend meeting, based on proposals from theEC's Monetary Committee and Committee of Central Bank Governorsfor strengthening the system through technical andinstitutional changes.    Eyskens said he expected EC Commission President JacquesDelors to submit proposals for fully liberalising capitalmovements within the 12-nation bloc and made clear he sharedDelors' view that this must be accompanied by a reinforcementof the EMS. "Both are totally linked. Liberalisation withoutstrengthening the EMS would destabilise the Community," he said.
 REUTER