OPEC MAY HAVE TO MEET TO FIRM PRICES - ANALYSTS
OPEC may be forced to meet before ascheduled June session to readdress its production cuttingagreement if the organization wants to halt the current slidein oil prices, oil industry analysts said.    "The movement to higher oil prices was never to be as easyas OPEC thought. They may need an emergency meeting to sort outthe problems," said Daniel Yergin, director of Cambridge EnergyResearch Associates, CERA.    Analysts and oil industry sources said the problem OPECfaces is excess oil supply in world oil markets.
    "OPEC's problem is not a price problem but a productionissue and must be addressed in that way," said Paul Mlotok, oilanalyst with Salomon Brothers Inc.    He said the market's earlier optimism about OPEC and itsability to keep production under control have given way to apessimistic outlook that the organization must address soon ifit wishes to regain the initiative in oil prices.    But some other analysts were uncertain that even anemergency meeting would address the problem of OPEC productionabove the 15.
8 mln bpd quota set last December.    "OPEC has to learn that in a buyers market you cannot havedeemed quotas, fixed prices and set differentials," said theregional manager for one of the major oil companies who spokeon condition that he not be named. "The market is now trying toteach them that lesson again," he added.
    David T. Mizrahi, editor of Mideast reports, expects OPECto meet before June, although not immediately. However, he isnot optimistic that OPEC can address its principal problems.    "They will not meet now as they try to take advantage of thewinter demand to sell their oil, but in late March and Aprilwhen demand slackens," Mizrahi said.
    But Mizrahi said that OPEC is unlikely to do anything morethan reiterate its agreement to keep output at 15.8 mln bpd."    Analysts said that the next two months will be critical forOPEC's ability to hold together prices and output.
    "OPEC must hold to its pact for the next six to eight weekssince buyers will come back into the market then," said DillardSpriggs of Petroleum Analysis Ltd in New York.    But Bijan Moussavar-Rahmani of Harvard University's Energyand Environment Policy Center said that the demand for OPEC oilhas been rising through the first quarter and this may haveprompted excesses in its production.    "Demand for their (OPEC) oil is clearly above 15.
8 mln bpdand is probably closer to 17 mln bpd or higher now so what weare seeing characterized as cheating is OPEC meeting thisdemand through current production," he told Reuters in atelephone interview. Reuter