INDONESIA SEEN AT CROSSROADS OVER ECONOMIC CHANGE
Indonesia appears to be nearing apolitical crossroads over measures to deregulate its protectedeconomy, the U.S. Embassy says in a new report.    To counter falling oil revenues, the government haslaunched a series of measures over the past nine months toboost exports outside the oil sector and attract newinvestment.    Indonesia, the only Asian member of OPEC and a leadingprimary commodity producer, has been severely hit by last year"sfall in world oil prices, which forced it to devalue itscurrency by 31 pct in September.
    But the U.S. Embassy report says President Suharto"sgovernment appears to be divided over what direction to leadthe economy.    "(It) appears to be nearing a crossroads with regard toderegulation, both as it pertains to investments and imports,"the report says. It primarily assesses Indonesia"s agriculturalsector, but also reviews the country"s general economicperformance.
    It says that while many government officials and advisersare recommending further relaxation, "there are equally strongpressures being exerted to halt all such moves."    "This group strongly favours an import substitution economy,"the report says.    Indonesia"s economic changes have been welcomed by the WorldBank and international bankers as steps in the right direction,though they say crucial areas of the economy like plastics andsteel remain highly protected, and virtual monopolies.
    Three sets of measures have been announced since last May,which broadened areas for foreign investment, reduced traderestrictions and liberalised imports.    The report says Indonesia"s economic growth in calendar 1986was probably about zero, and the economy may even havecontracted a bit. "This is the lowest rate of growth since themid-1960s," the report notes.
    Indonesia, the largest country in South-East Asia with apopulation of 168 million, is facing general elections inApril.    But the report hold out little hope for swift improvementin the economic outlook. "For 1987 early indications point to aslightly positive growth rate not exceeding one pct.
 Economicactivity continues to suffer due to the sharp fall in exportearnings from the petroleum industry."    "Growth in the non-oil sector is low because of weakdomestic demand coupled with excessive plant capacity, realdeclines in construction and trade, and a reduced level ofgrowth in agriculture," the report states.    Bankers say continuation of present economic reforms iscrucial for the government to get the international lending itsneeds.
    A new World Bank loan of 300 mln dlrs last month in balanceof payments support was given partly to help the governmentmaintain the momentum of reform, the Bank said. REUTER