SAUDI ARABIA REITERATES COMMITMENT TO OPEC PACT
Saudi Arabian Oil Minister Hisham Nazerreiterated the kingdom's commitment to last December's OPECaccord to boost world oil prices and stabilise the market, theofficial Saudi Press Agency SPA said.    Asked by the agency about the recent fall in free marketoil prices, Nazer said Saudi Arabia "is fully adhering by the..
. Accord and it will never sell its oil at prices below thepronounced prices under any circumstance."    Nazer, quoted by SPA, said recent pressure on free marketprices "may be because of the end of the (northern hemisphere)winter season and the glut in the market.
"    Saudi Arabia was a main architect of the December accord,under which OPEC agreed to lower its total output ceiling by7.25 pct to 15.8 mln barrels per day (bpd) and return to fixedprices of around 18 dlrs a barrel.
    The agreement followed a year of turmoil on oil markets,which saw prices slump briefly to under 10 dlrs a barrel inmid-1986 from about 30 dlrs in late 1985. Free market pricesare currently just over 16 dlrs.    Nazer was quoted by the SPA as saying Saudi Arabia'sadherence to the accord was shown clearly in the oil market.
    He said contacts among members of OPEC showed they allwanted to stick to the accord.    In Jamaica, OPEC President Rilwanu Lukman, who is alsoNigerian Oil Minister, said the group planned to stick with thepricing agreement.    "We are aware of the negative forces trying to manipulatethe operations of the market, but we are satisfied that thefundamentals exist for stable market conditions," he said.
    Kuwait's Oil Minister, Sheikh Ali al-Khalifa al-Sabah, saidin remarks published in the emirate's daily Al-Qabas there wereno plans for an emergency OPEC meeting to review prices.    Traders and analysts in international oil markets estimateOPEC is producing up to one mln bpd above the 15.8 mln ceiling.
    They named Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates, along withthe much smaller producer Ecuador, among those producing abovequota. Sheikh Ali denied that Kuwait was over-producing. REUTER