OIL PRICES RISE ON SAUDI EFFORT
Crude oil prices rallied today, movingover 17.00 dlrs a barrel because of Saudi Arabia's determinedeffort to support prices, analysts said.    "The Saudis and other OPEC nations are jawboning the market,hoping to restore confidence and prices and to do this withoutanother meeting," said Sanford Margoshes, oil analyst withShearson Lehman Brothers Inc.
    "But OPEC is not out of the woods yet by a longshot due toseasonal declines in demand and some cheating," he added.    Oil industry analysts said Saudi Arabia has led the attemptto get other OPEC members to resist pressures to discount fromthe official prices agreed to last december.    The analysts said that to get others to hold the line,Saudi Arabia pushed hard at the meeting of deputy oil ministersof the Gulf Cooperation Council last weekend and at theCooperation Council oil ministers' meeting the previous week.
    The Saudis have also offered to support members havingdifficulty in selling their oil, analysts said.    "They are trying to make sure that no one discounts, and toprevent that, it appears that Saudi Arabia or some other OPECmember will allocate some of their oil sales to help membersthat lose sales," Margoshes said.    He added that the allocations would probably be in the formof loans to be repaid when these nations resume sales.
    Analysts said this would be useful in keeping in linenations like Qatar, which has had trouble selling oil. But itis also likely that such assistance would be provided toNigeria which is under pressure to extend discounts.    Analysts said that Saudi Arabia, with assistance from OPECpresident Rilwanu Lukman, was trying to avoid an emergency OPECmeeting for fear that it would give the appearance that theDecember pact is falling apart.
    Daniel McKinley, oil analyst with Smith Barney, UphamHarris and Co said, "both physical and futures markets have beenoversold and it only took a small spark to bring on a shortcovering rally."    He believes an Iranian trade mission to Tokyo, whichrefused discounts to Japanese buyers, brought Japanese refinersinto the market to cover their short positions.    Oil traders said one japanese refiner came into the marketto but 10 cargoes of May Dubai, which sent prices up on Mideastsours, with Dubai trading up to 16.
50 dlrs after tradingyeterray as low as 15.63 dlrs and then spilled over into theNorth sea crude oil market.    Traders said that there have been persistent rumors todaythat Japanese buyers are looking to pick up cargoes of Brentfor Japan and European trade sources indidate rumors of vesselsbeing fixed to make such shipments.
    North sea brent today rose over 17.00 dlrs with tradesreported as high as 17.05 dlrs, up one dlr.
    OPEC members' denials that they are producing over theirquotas sparked moves to cover short postitions.    Indonesian oil minister Subroto said today that OPECproduction was below the 15.8 mln bpd quota agreed to lastdecember but he gave no details on OPEC production againstclaims it was more at least one mln bpd above that level.
    "The production probably is about their quota level andlargely because Saudi Arabia will not discount and canot sellits oil as a result," Margoshes said.    Analysts have mixed opinions about the extent of thecurrent rally. Some believe prices can continue to rise ifSaudi Arabia and OPEC hold steady in a refusal to discount.
    But others said that despite the rally today there werestill several fundamental factors, including demand, whichcould cut the rally short.    Marion Stewart, an indepedent petroleum economist, saidslow growth in the economies of the U.S. and OECD would keepdemand for oil slack and he now estimates that demand to riseabout 1.4 pct over 1986.
 Reuter