ENERGY/CALIFORNIA OIL PRODUCTION
Drilling for oil in California islikely to continue at last year's sharply reduced levelsdespite recent gains in crude oil prices, industry analystssaid.    Because much of the crude oil in California fields isthick, heavy and expensive to extract, oil prices would have toincrease to near 1985's levels before any significant recoveryis seen in drilling, they said.    "Companies will probably only drill their best prospects,"said John Curti, an analyst with Birr Wilson Securities Inc.
    Few new wells now are being drilled.    Only 33 rigs, about one-quarter of the total available,were drilling for oil onshore in California last week, comparedto about 70 last year, said Bill Bolster of Munger OilInformation Services, which tracks California drillingactivity.    "It's in the dregs right now," said Bolster of the state'sdrilling activity.
    Current prices are not enough to justify increaseddrilling, said Ed Malmgreen of the California IndependentProducers Association.    While an Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries pactto curb production boosted oil prices early this year, priceseventually fell.    Prices for California's marker grade, Line 63 blend, haveslumped about 20 pct in the last month to 14 dlrs from a highof about 17 dlrs.
    More than half of California's oil comes from stripperwells, those producing less than 10 barrels a day, and thatmuch of that oil costs between 18 and 25 dlrs a barrel toextract, Malmgreen said.    "It's not unusual for a stripper well to cost 18 dlrs,"Malmgreen said.    Many stripper wells along the southern California coastproduce eight times as much water as crude oil, and inlandwells frequently require the use of steam injection to spurextraction of the thick, heavy oil, he said.
    The outlook for future production in California is cloudedby a lack of exploratory drilling now, analysts said.    In the heart of California's oil patch, Kern County, whichproduces about two-thirds of the state's oil, exploratorydrilling has slowed to a crawl.    Only 55 exploratory wells were drilled in Kern County in1986, compared to 137 in 1985, according to David Mitchell ofthe state energy commission.
 So far this year only fiveexploratory wells have been drilled.    "I don't think they'll even get to what they did lastyear," Mitchell said.    No pickup in exploratory drilling is likely for the rest ofthe decade, Mitchell said.
    Along with the fall in drilling has come a decrease in thenumber of producing wells and overall production.    Between February and October of 1986, the number ofproducing oil wells in California fell 14 pct to 43,521 frommore than 50,000, said Bill Guerard of the California EnergyCommission.    In line with that decrease, California's crude oil outputfell about 10 pct last year due to low oil prices and isexpected to remain at that lower level, analysts said.
    Between February and October 1986, California's crude oilproduction slipped from an all-time high of 1.185 mln barrelsper day to 1.066 mln bpd, Guerard said.
    Total estimated crude oil production in California for 1986was 408 mln bbls, compared with 424 mln bbls in 1985 and 405mln bbl in 1983, according to the California Department ofConservation.    "Production in 1987 will probably hold around 1986 levels,"Guerard said. Reuter