OPEC SAYS FEBRUARY OUTPUT UNDER CEILING
OPEC output in February was "well below"the 15.8 mln bpd ceiling it set in December and all countriesare strictly adhering to their quotas, the OPEC news agencyOpecna quoted an OPEC secretariat official as saying.    The official was quoted as saying that lower output was theresult "of member countries' firm determination to defend theorganisation's official price of 18 dlrs per barrel, and torefrain from selling any quantity below that price.
"    The unnamed official was further quoted as saying that noOPEC meeting was foreseen before the next biannual OPEC sessionplanned to start on June 25.    The official gave no figure for February output. Thestatement said only that "the reduction in total supplies,namely actual exports of crude oil and products, plus localdeliveries in member countries, is even more pronounced asthose supplies fell very noticeably during that month.
"    "No matter what the pressure on member countries by liftersto align the official selling price to the ongoing marketprice, member countries are, without exception, strictlyadhering to the official selling price in spite of thefinancial hardship this may entail," the statement said.    "The very recent improvement in the price structure is anindicator of such determination by the organization to stick tothe official selling price," the statement said.    Free spot market prices rose from around 14.
50 dlrs abarrel in early December last year to near OPEC's officiallevels towards the end of the year, after the OPEC pact.    There has been oil industry speculation that OPEC mighthave to hold an extraordinrary meeting prior to its scheduledJune session to discuss reports of overproduction by somestates and strains on the differential matrix, which priceseach OPEC crude according to its quality and distance from mainmarkets.    The official said in the statement that no such emergencysession was scheduled "because of member countries' firmdetermination to defend the price (system)" agreed in December.
    Opec"s differential committee was to have met in Viennastarting April 2 but this session has been postponed, with nonew date set, according to an official of the United ArabEmirates, which chairs the seven-state body.    Other members are Algeria, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Libya,Nigeria and Qatar. REUTER