OPEC PRESIDENT SAYS OUTPUT WELL BELOW CEILING
Opec Conference President Rilwanu Lukmansaid the group was producing well below the 15.8 mln bpdceiling it set in December, partly because liftings had beendelayed or postponed by customers unwilling to pay fixed Opecprices.    Lukman, during a brief visit to London on his way home fromJamaica, told Reuters in a telephone interview that inFebruary, Opec had underproduced partly because members werestrictly abiding by production quotas and partly because theywere resisting the temptation to sell at discounts to officialprices of around 18 dlrs a barrel.
    "We are determined to stand firm by the (December) accord,"he said. "I have spoken to every other Opec minister and theyare committed to making the accord work," he said.    Lukman gave no specific figures for February output.
 Hesaid the Opec secretariat in Vienna was finalizing thesefigures.    Told of a Reuters survey published today which estimatedthat Opec output so far this week was below 15 mln bpd, hesaid; "That could well be correct."    Opec"s news agency Opecna today issued a statement sayinggroup output was "well below" its ceiling in February.
 But itgave no figures.    But one source close to Opec indicated that February outputmay have been between 15.3 and 15.
5 mln bpd.    The Reuter survey estimated Opec February output at around16 mln bpd.    Opec agreed in December to cut output by 7.
25 pct to 15.8mln bpd and to return to fixed prices starting February 1.    Lukman said Qatar, Nigeria, Saudi Arabia and Iran had allproduced in February below their Opec quotas.
 Iraq, which saidit would not honour its 1.466 mln bpd quota under the Decemberpact, had produced less than had been anticipated, he said.    Lukman said that some industry reports "may be correct" thatin February, Nigeria propuced 75-100,000 bpd below its 1.
238mln bpd quota, Saudi Arabia 500,000 bpd less than its 4.133 mlnallocation and Qatar 20 to 30 pct under its 285,000 bpd quota.    He said that sweet crudes such as those produced by hiscountry were coming under price pressure because they werecurrently officially priced above sweet North Sea grades andthe United States" West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude.
    However, he said Opec in December had anticipated thatdemand would be slack at this time of year for seasonal reasonsand expected the market to firm in two to three weeks.    "We have to be patient for two or three weeks. The market isnow firming on actual fundamentals," he said, adding that heexpected it to go "up and up" even beyond official prices afterearly April.
 This is when, traditionally, there is more demandfor gasoline-rich crudes such as Nigeria"s.    The Opec President said producers such as Kuwait, Venezuelaand Indonesia were having less problems with output thanproducers like his own country because they exported oilproducts.    Also, some of Venezuela"s heavy grades were outside the Opecpricing system, he said.
    Lukman said that if refiner-buyers, now refusing to liftsome Opec oil at official prices, instead used their own stocksand ran them down to "dangerous levels," they would eventuallyhave to buy Opec oil.    "When they realise it is not a free-for-all (in the market)they will realise they should buy now instead of paying morelater on," he said.    Lukman, asked about industry reports that Nigeria was beingpressured by equity producers for better terms, said it wasimportant to know that terms with them were negotiable,flexible and under constant review, not only when the marketseemed weak.
    He said that so far, no meeting of the seven-nationministerial differentials committee had been scheduled and thatsuch a meeting, now twice-postponed, was not a high priorityfor Opec at the moment.    "At this time, we have to get our priorities right," he said."The most important thing now is ensuring that the accord isworking, not dealing with a differential of cents betweengrades.
"    But if any Opec member raised concerns or objections overthe differential system, a meeting would be called, he said. Reuter