CRUDE OIL PRICES UP AS STOCKS, OUTPUT FALL
U.S. crude oil prices rose above 18 dlrs a barrel this week and industry analysts said the pricecould rise another dollar as inventories fall.    "OPEC is keeping its production down, and in the cash marketthere is tight supply of crude with short transportation timeto major refining centers," said Daniel McKinley, oil analystwith Smith Barney, Harris Upham and Co. "That could send prices50 cts to a dollar higher," he added.
    The U.S. benchmark crude West Texas Intermediate rose to18.15 dlrs a barrel today, a rise of 1.50 dlrs this week.
    The rally in oil prices this week came after prices fell inFebruary more than two dlrs from its high of 18.25 dlrs abarrel.    "Oil traders were pulling prices down on the assumption thatoil stocks were building and OPEC was producing well above its15.
8 mln bpd quota, but now both of those assumptions have comeunder question," McKinley said.    Yesterday the International Energy Agency in its monthlyreport said that oil stocks in the OECD area, or inindustrialized nations, were drawn down by 1.3 mln bpd duringthe first quarter of this year.
    IEA estimates that the draw in oil stocks during the firstquarter of this year will come largely from oil companies whoseinventory levels by April one will be an estimated 326 mlntonnes, or about 74 days consumption.    Industry analysts also said the estimate of a 3.5 mln bpddraw in stocks made by Shell Chairman Peter Holmes yesterdayfed speculation that other major companies were destocking.
    Traders said the destocking has come about as a result of aso-called buyers strike, which kept refiners from buyingofficially priced OPEC oil in an effort to get the organizationto offer discounts to the official price.    "This struggle between the companies and OPEC is theultimate game of chicken but it will be resolved relativelysoon. I would imagine by about the middle of the month (March),"the general trading manager of an international oil companytold Reuters in a telephone interview.
    For its part OPEC has moved to win this game by cuttingexcess supplies from the market by a reduction of its ownoutput, traders said. A Reuter survey estimates OPEC output tobe 14.7 mln bpd this week.
    Also, an earthquake in Ecuador yesterday led it to suspendoil exports indefintiely and force majeure its shipments.    "This will reduce short-haul availabilities by about 250,000bpd almost immediately and the longer the suspension continues,the larger the draw in stocks will be for companies expectingit to be there," McKinley said.    International oil traders said that other short-haulcrudes, such as North Sea Brent, were also scarce because Asianrefiners bought the oil after absorbing a lot of the readilyavailable Mideast crudes earlier this week.
    If this pattern continues then oil companies will bid upthe price of oil as they purchase for their refineries, tradingmanagers at several companies told Reuters.    But there were skeptics who said they wondered how longOPEC can retain its unity if buyer resistance continues.    Stephen Hanke, chief economist at Friedburg CommodityManagement, said OPEC production was lower "because of theSaudi cut (to 3.
1 mln bpd) and this could spell trouble if itgives other members an incentive to exceed their quotas."     He added, "The Saudis will be picking up the tab for othermembers who produce over their quota, and the drain on theSaudis will continue, forcing them to cut output maybe as lowas 2.5 mln bpd to support the 18 dlrs average price," he added.
    There are also signs of some OPEC crudes being sold in thespot market at below OPEC official prices, traders said.    Oil traders said Nigerian Brass River sold for deliveryinto the U.S. Gulf at a price related to North Sea brent, whichtraded this week at 17.60 dlrs, far below the official price of18.
92 dlrs for the similar quality Bonny Light.    Iranian oil is also surfacing in the U.S. Gulf and the FarEast at reported discounts to its 17.50 dlrs official price.
    "There is a lot of oil priced on government-to-governmentdeals, which are below official prices and this is probablybeing resold," one international trader said. Reuter