ECUADOR TO EXPORT NO OIL FOR 4 MONTHS, OFFICIAL
The suspension of Ecuador's crude oilshipments after an earthquake cut an oil pipeline will last atleast four months, a senior Energy Ministry official said.    The official said Ecuador could resume exports afterrepairing a 40 km section of the 510 km pipeline, which linksjungle oil fields at Lago Agrio to Balao on the Pacific coast.It would take about 100 mln U.S. Dlrs to repair the pipeline,the official, who did not want to be named, told Reuters.
Ecuador had enough oil to meet domestic demand for about 35days and would have to import crude to supplement stocks.    The earthquake last Thursday night registered six on the12-point international Mercalli scale. The damage to thepipeline was a severe economic blow to Ecuador, where oilaccounts for up to two-thirds of total exports and as much as60 pct of government revenues.
    Financially pressed Ecuador, a member of the Organisationof Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), was recently pumpingabout 260,000 barrels per day (bpd) of crude, about 50,000 bpdabove the output quota assigned by the cartel, another EnergyMinistry spokesman said. Last year, it exported an average of173,500 bpd, according to the central bank.    However, Ecuador might build an emergency 25 km pipeline,costing 15 to 20 mln dlrs, to hook up with a Colombianpipeline, the first official said.
 He estimated it could takeabout 60 days to build.    Ecuador, squeezed by the slide in world oil prices in 1986,had only 138 mln dlrs in net international reserves at the endof January, about equal to one month's imports.    It suspended interest payments in January on 5.
4 billiondlrs owed to about 400 private foreign banks. The country'stotal foreign debt is 8.16 billion dlrs, the eighth largest inLatin America.
    In Caracas, President Jaime Lusinchi said Venezuela wouldloan five mln barrels of crude to Ecuador over the next threemonths to make up for losses from damage to the pipeline.    Ecuador asked for the loan to guarantee domestic suppliesand would ship an equivalent volume back to Venezuela inrepayment in May, Lusinchi said.    A commission headed by Venezuelan Investment Fund MinisterHector Hurtado and including representatives from the interiorand defence ministries and the state oil company Petroleos deVenezuela will travel to Ecuador Tuesday to evaluate andco-ordinate an emergency relief program, he said.
 REUTER