PETRO-CANADA TO DRILL TWO TERRA NOVA TEST WELLS
Petro-Canada, Canada'sstate-owned oil company, said it will drill two delineationwells this summer at the Terra Nova oil field offshoreNewfoundland.    Evaluation of test results and preliminary engineering workshould put Petro-Canada in a position to propose a developmentplan for the Terra Nova field in 1988, the company said.    Depending on time required for regulatory approvals,construction could begin in 1989, with first oil production asearly as 1991, Petro-Canada said.
    "We have a high degree of confidence that the westernportion of the (Terra Nova) field contains at least 11 mlncubic meters of recoverable oil, or more than 70 mln barrels,and that we could produce it economicly using a floatingproduction system," Petro-Canada said.    The Terra-Nova field, lying 350 kilometers east of St.John's and 35 kilometers southeast of Hibernia field, wasdiscovered by Petro-Canada in 1984.
    "We've had encouraging results from the eastern portion ofthe field, and we hope this summer's drilling will prove upadditional reserves there," the company said.    Petro-Canada believes Terra Nova field is a good commercialprospect and the company wants to move some of those resourcestowards development so it can start generating a return oninvestments, Petro-Canada said.    Petro-Canada, which will act as operator of the two wells,has a 75 pct interest in the western portion of Graven block ofthe Terra Nova field and a 26 pct interest in the field's EastFlank block, a company spokesman said later.
 Other fieldparticipants include Canterra Energy Ltd, Mobil Oil Canada Ltd,Gulf Canada Resources Inc, ICG Resources Ltd, TrilliumExploration Corp and general partnership PAREX.    Petro-Canada estimates reserves in the Terra Nova field'sGraven block of between 68 mln and 70 mln barrels of oil,company spokesman Bob Foulkes said from Petro-Canada's Calgaryoffice.    Combined reserves for Graven Block and the field's EastFlank block are estimated between 70 mln and 130 mln barrels,he added.    Petro-Canada expects to spend about 500 mln Canadian dlrsto bring the field to production by about 1991, and thedevelopment budget could double if the company builds aproduction system combining both blocks in the field, he said.
    Petro-Canada estimates the Terra Nova field Graven blockwould produce between 25,000 and 26,000 barrels average dailyproduction, with a production system that would have maximumcapacity of 40,000 bpd, company spokesman Foulkes said inanswer to a query.    The company estimates a production system combining bothGraven and East Flank blocks in the Terra Nova field couldproduce about 45,000 bpd average daily production, he said. Reuter