TALKING POINT/OIL SERVICES TURNAROUND SEEN
The oil services industry is on theverge of a recovery because of rising crude prices, oilindustry analysts said.    The analysts, who issued buy recommendations on somestocks, said the recovery in oil services should begin in thesecond half of 1987, after drilling activity bottoms out in thefirst half, and continue into the next decade.     "People, however, cannot afford to wait for drilling to goup to start buying," said Sandi Haber Sweeney, senior researchanalyst at Sanford C. Bernstein and Co Inc.
    Among the recommended buys are Schlumberger Ltd <SLB>,Halliburton Co <HAL>, Dresser Industries <DI>, BakerInternational <BKO>, and McDermott International Inc <MDR>,which may be the target of a takeover by Harold Simmons, aDallas-based investor.    Analysts said although major oil companies are increasingexploration and development overseas, they expect the pickup inoil services will begin in the U.S.    "Activity in the U.S. is so depressed it should move upfaster," said Vishnu Sharp of Goldman Sachs.    The number of active oil drilling rigs in the U.S. was 766last week compared with 1,212 rigs one year ago, Huges Tool Co<HT> figures show.
    The average number of working rigs in the U.S. for 1987 isprojected at 978 versus 964 in 1986, according to Ike Kerridge,vice president of stockholder relations at Hughes Tool. "Thefirst significant pickup in drilling activity will occur in thesecond half of 1988," Kerridge said.    Overseas drilling activity is expected to follow a similarpattern, Kerridge said.
    "Halliburton is the best value," said Jeffrey Freedman,vice president at Smith Barney, Harris and Upham Inc, addingthe company controls the greatest amount of liquidity of commonstock market value, is diversifed in non-oil field businesess,and has the lowest multiple of stock price to operating cashflow including debt.    Schlumberger is Freedman's second favorite oil servicestock.    "Schlumberger is expected to continue to be the dominanttechnical leader in the industry," Freedman said.
    "Schlumberger's management shift, asset restructuring,including a pending merger of Fairchild Semiconductor, and itsconsiderable cash horde sets the stage for the company tomaximize its significant industry advantage and capitalize onthe project upturn in exploration and development activity,"according to a report by George Gaspar, first vice president atRobert W. Baird and Co Inc.    Gaspar estimates earnings per share for Schlumberger at 25cts for 1987 and one to 1.75 dlrs in 1988 compared with 20 ctsin 1986 excluding a fourth quarter special charge of 1.
87billion dlrs.    Bernstein's Sandi Sweeney is recommending a group of oilservice companies and said choosing among them is difficult.Her favorite is Baker International, which is involved in apossible merger with Hughes Tool Co.
    Dresser Industries will also benefit from the recovery butpossibly not as much as other companies because it is not apure service company, Sweeney said.    Dresser is expected to improve profitability owing to costreductions and streamlined operations, including the sale andleaseback of its headquarters, said Swarup. Reuter