OPEC REAFFIRMS COMMITMENT TO FIXED PRICES, CEILING
OPEC has reaffirmed its commitment tofixed crude oil prices of around 18 dlrs a barrel and anoverall output ceiling of 15.8 mln barrels per day (bpd) todefend prices, its president Rilwanu Lukman said.    He told a news conference here "After due consultation withmy colleagues in OPEC, I hereby wish to emphasize that Nigeriaand all member countries of OPEC remain determined to upholdthe December agreement by adhering strictly to their variousquotas and official selling prices.
"    Lukman added no extraordinary OPEC conference was planned.    "We are in a position to re-confirm that, despite misleadingnews in foreign media to the contrary, ..
. OPEC membercountries as a whole produced below their agreed quota in themonth of February," Lukman, who is Nigerian oil minister, said.    Lukman put the overall OPEC output shortfall in February at900,000 bpd and said this was as a result of their firmdetermination to defend official selling prices of 18 dlrsagreed upon last December in Geneva.
    The December agreement set an overall output ceiling forOPEC of 15.8 mln bpd for first half 1987 and restored fixedprices as from February 1 around a reference point of 18 dlrs.    Oil prices rallied immediately after the Geneva accord butfell again last month on reports that OPEC was producing morethan the agreed level.
    "The idea was to suggest that OPEC's agreement would nothold and this caused some customers to hold back purchases ofOPEC oil and resort to destocking to meet their needs," Lukmansaid.    He said the 900,000 bpd shortfall last February was basedon the verified figure for 10 out of OPEC's 13 members, addingthat Nigeria alone had a shortfall in production of 100,000bpd.    Iraq disassociated itself from the December agreement,while the production figures of Ecuador and the United ArabEmirates needed to be verified, Lukman said.
    "If that is the price we have to pay to make the agreementsucceed, we are ready ...
 OPEC is not changing its price levelof 18 dlrs," the group's president said.    He said the OPEC price differentials committee meetingformerly postponed to April had been put off indefinitely.    "Furthermore, no extraordinary meeting of the conference isat the moment contemplated since most agreements reached inDecember are being adhered to," he said.
    Asked if the committee did not need to meet soon to narrowthe gaps in the prices of the various OPEC crudes -- fixed inrelation to the 18 dlr benchmark -- Lukman replied "We considerthe defence of our prices much more crucial than differentials."    Lukman said OPEC was aware that consumers had heavily drawnon stocks of both crude oil and refined products to levels wellbelow this time last year and soon they would return to themarket in search of crude.    "We don't see that there is going to be any difficulty inmaintaining the 18 dlr price throughout the rest of the year,"Lukman said.
    The OPEC president praised non-OPEC oil producers, which hesaid had contributed to the group's efforts to stabiliseprices, but he criticised Britain for maintaining its long-heldview not to do anything to help the market.    "We are quite confident, however, that in the long-term withtwo-thirds of the world's reserves in OPEC hands, the future isours. We will use that advantage responsibly," he said.
    Lukman described the disruption in Ecuador's outputfollowing an earthquake as tragic, but refused to say if theSouth American country would be allowed a higher output quotawhen it recovered from the disaster. REUTER