ENERGY/FOREIGN INVESTORS
Lured by the weakening dollar and theconviction that oil prices are poised for a rebound, Europeanenergy companies are buying up cheap U.S. oil and gas reservesto replenish their supplies, oil industry analysts said.    They said owning oil reserves in a politically stableUnited States is good insurance against future shortages.However, the quick pace of foreign investment has heated upcompetition among European firms, well-heeled U.S.institutional investors and major oil companies to snare choicedomestic oil properties.
    Strevig and Associates, a Houston firm that tracks oil andgas reserve sales, said growing interest among foreign buyershad helped push reserve prices in recent months higher. Allbuyers of U.S. reserves paid a median price of 6.45 dlrs abarrel of oil during the fourth quarter of 1986 foracquisitions, up from 5.
33 dlrs in the third quarter and fivedlrs in the second quarter, according to the firm's research.    "Foreign investors have been here nibbling a long time, butwe're seeing new names and smaller companies coming in," saidArthur Smith, an oil property appraisal specialist andpresident of John S. Herold Inc in Greenwich, Conn.    "Europeans, especially, do not have much indigenous oil andgas and realize the tide will eventually turn in favor of theOrganization of Petroleum Exporting Countries," he added.
    Smith and other oil industry analyst and economists believethe trend in foreign investments will continue in 1987 becauseof the fall in value of the U.S. dollar, the perception thatoil prices have hit bottom and the fact that it is cheaper tobuy new reserves than to explore for them.    Plenty of properties are available on the market, thanks tothe need of many companies to raise cash for debt payments andgeneral restructuring throughout the oilpatch.    In two of the biggest transactions of recent months,French-owned Minatome Corp.
, a unit of <Total CompagnieFrancaise des Petroles>, spent more than 230 mln dlrs toseparately acquire oil assets of Texas International <TEICC>and Lear Petroleum Partners <LPP>. A spokesman for Minatomesaid the company is searching for additional acquisitions.    A partnership of two Belgian-owned firms, <Petrofina S.A.>and <Cometra Oil S.A.> paid 150 mln dlrs late last year to buyvirtually all the exploration assets of the Williams Cos <WMB>,the Oklahoma pipeline firm.
    But Japanese investors prefer entering into joint ventureswith experienced U.S. companies to explore for new oil. Japan's<Nippon Oil> is a partner of Texaco Inc's <TX> Texaco USA in a100 mln dlrs U.S. drilling program, and has joined withDupont's <DD> Conoco Inc in a similar 135 dlrs mln deal.    Most buyers said the pay-back period of a property, itsgeographic location and the lifting cost of the crude oil aremore important factors in evaluating potential acquisitionsthan relying on a simple price-per-barrel formula.
    Rich Hodges, a Houston-based land manager representingInternational Oil and Gas Corp, a partnership of <PreussagCorp> and <C. Deilmann Inc> of West Germany, said the firm hadearmarked at least 50 mln dlrs to spend on oil reserves inTexas, Oklahoma or Louisiana in the coming months.    But he called that a small amount compared to the amountother investors have for acquisitions. PaineWebber's GeodyneEnergy Income Fund, for example, has said it plans to spend upto 300 mln dlrs on oil and gas properties.
    "The competition is stiff, not only from other foreigninvestors but from the brokerage houses and U.S. oilcompanies," he said. "Our company is shopping around because wefeel it's substantially less risky than pure exploration. Ifyou're going to take the risk inherent in exploration, you needprices higher than the current market," he added.
    In addition to the foreign investors and U.S. brokeragehouses, analysts said many of the major oil companies were alsocompeting for prime properties.    Houston-based Shell Oil Co, a unit of Royal Dutch/Shell Group<RD>, has been one of the most active companies in buying andselling reserves, Smith said. Since 1982, Shell has acquiredtwo billion dlrs in new reserves, including 470 mln barrels ofoil equivalent at a net cost of 2.
80 dlrs a barrel, he said.    "Buying reserves is a good strategy for most of thesecompanies," Smith said. "Domestic production has dropped by onemln barrels a day because of cutbacks in drilling and it maydrop by another one mln barrels a day in 1988.
" Reuter