BRAZIL'S SARNEY MEETS STRIKES WITH SHOW OF FORCE
With troops in place in Brazil'sports and oil installations, the government of Prersident JoseSarney today sought to end a wave of labour unrest by a show offorce.    Yesterday the government sent thousands of troops supportedin some instances by tanks to occupy nine oil refineries andsix areas of oil production.    The state-oil company Petrobras requested the interventionbecause of a threatened strike by 55,000 oil industryemployees.
    The government had already dispatched more than 1,000marines to occupy the country's main ports after a nationalseamen's strike was ruled illegal last Friday.    The strike by 40,000 seamen, now in its 13th day,represents a stern challenge to the government.    The stoppage has delayed exports at a time when Brazildesperately needs foreign exchange.
    It was a deterioration in the country's trade balance whichprecipitated Brazil's current debt crisis and the decision onFebruary 20 to suspend interest payments on 68 billion dlrs ofcommercial debt.    There was no sign today of an early end to the seamen'sstrike, which has badly hit the port of Santos -- the mostimportant in South America -- and the country's other mainports.    Small groups of marines armed with submachineguns stand onthe quays near the strike-bound ships, but the militarypresence here is generally discreet.
    A total of 800 marines are inside the docks but most areout of sight.    Yesterday marines and police occupied one ship, theDocemarte, seamen's leaders said. After explaining to thecaptain that the strikers faced up to one year in jail becausethe strike was illegal, the men returned to work.
    One of the strike leaders, Elmano Barbosa, said "it is apsychological war. They are using force and we are usingpeaceful methods."    Port sources said only two Brazilian ships in Santos, theDocemarte and the Henrique Leal, were working.
    At the seamen's national strike headquarters in Rio deJaneiro, spokesmen say a total of about 190 ships arestrike-bound in Brazil and in foreign ports.    Contradicting earlier reports from strike headquarters inRio de Janeiro, seamen in Santos said the strikers on boardships here were not running out of food.    The current labour unrest is the worst faced by Sarney'scivilian government since it came to power two years ago.
    Yesterday, in a separate protest, hundreds of thousands offarmers held rallies directed largely against high bankinterest rates.    The current rash of labour unrest in industry andagriculture stems from the failure of the government'snow-collapsed Cruzado Plan price freeze. Reuter