MOST JAPAN FIRMS NOT RENEWING IRAN TERM CONTRACTS
Most Japanese companies have decided notto renew term contracts to lift Iranian crude oil because spotprices remain considerably lower than OPEC's official levels,industry sources said.    They said a cargo of the Mideast benchmark crude Dubaitraded yesterday at 16.50 dlrs a barrel, compared to itsofficial price of 17.
42 dlrs.    Only one Japanese company has renewed its term contract forIranian crude oil for the second quarter, the sources said.    The sources said Japanese companies had been lifting atotal of about 185,000 barrels per day (bpd) of Iranian crudeunder term contracts, but only one firm has agreed to lift inthe second quarter.
 It is lifting just 10,000 to 15,000 bpd.    They said this move could inspire Iran to offer discountson cargoes loading in April, but the likelihood of discountsdepended largely on the levels of spot prices.    "If the spot price of Dubai goes above 17.
30 dlrs we wouldprobably buy Iranian crude at the official price," one Japaneserefiner said.    "We don't intend to put pressure on them," he added.    Buyers have little incentive to renew contracts to lift oilat official OPEC prices while spot prices on all grades areconsiderably lower, oil traders said.
    They said if spot prices move higher there will be noproblem finding OPEC crude to purchase at the official prices.Qatar has chartered floating storage for its crude oil afterfinding no buyers at official prices in March. The problem islikely to recur in April, adding to that country's surplus.
    The traders added that Iraq had dissociated itself fromOPEC's December production agreement, while agreeing to thefixed prices.    But oil analysts said if OPEC keeps group output close toits first-half 1987 ceiling of 15.8 mln bpd, supply and demandwould be balanced by the end of the second quarter.
    They also said if OPEC holds its official price structurebased on a reference price of 18 dlrs, spot price fluctuationsshould be limited to a 16.50 to 17.20 dlrs range for Dubai anda 17 to 18 dlrs range for the North Sea's Brent blend.
    One Japanese refiner said, "At the moment there's a lot ofpressure on OPEC, particularly on Qatar. But if they hold outthere will be no problem, and I'm beginning to trust theirability."    Nigerian oil minister and OPEC president Rilwanu Lukmantold a news conference in Lagos yesterday, "Nigeria and allmember countries of OPEC remain determined to uphold theDecember agreement by adhering strictly to their various quotasand official selling prices.
"    He said OPEC believed consumers had drawn heavily on stocksof both crude oil and refined products, reducing them to levelswell below this time last year. He said consumers would soonreturn to the market in search of crude.    A Japanese refiner said, "The European and U.S. Markets arebeginning to look better so OPEC might be quite lucky.
"