SAUDI OUTPUT SAID AT YEAR LOW TO HELP OPEC
Saudi Arabian oil output has fallen toits lowest level in more than a year, giving fresh evidence ofthe kingdom's determination to keep oil prices at 18 dlrs abarrel, as agreed by Opec last December, oil industry sourcessaid.    They said Saudi output in the first eight days of Marchaveraged 2.6 mln barrels per day (bpd) including oil from theneutral zone shared with Kuwait, compared to a February averageof 3.
5 mln bpd.    They said Saudi Arabia was also selling oil from its crudeoil stocks in tankers around the world, which OPEC says must becounted towards a member's production quota. Saudi Arabia'squota is 4.
133 mln bpd.    The lower production levels indicated Saudi Arabia, theworld"s largest oil exporter, was insisting on getting Opecofficial prices, even at the cost of lower production, thesources said.    King Fahd reiterated yesterday, in an interview withReuters and the television news agency Visnews, the Saudicommitment to OPEC's December pact to boost oil prices to anaverage 18 dlrs.
    "Saudi Arabia is completely sticking to OPEC decisions," hesaid.    The sources said the kingdom's exports from Gulf portsaveraged one mln bpd during the eight days ending last Sunday,down from a February average of 1.9 mln bpd.
    They said Saudi Arabia was allowing production to fluctuatewith lifting nominations and was not trying to maintainartificially high levels by putting oil into storage.    The kingdom's main buyers, the four U.S. Oil firms withpast stakes in the national oil company Aramco -- Mobil, Exxon,Texaco and Chevron -- enjoy considerable flexibility in thetiming and volume of their liftings but are bound to payofficial prices, the sources said.    Spot market prices have firmed in the past two weeks butstill remain below OPEC levels and major buyers have delayedliftings in the hope they would improve, the sources said.
    They expected low early March output to pick up towards theend of the month as buyers sought to fulfill their contractualobligations. REUTER