WILDLIFE UNIT PROPOSES ALASKA REFUGE OIL STUDY
The National Wildlife Federation rejected an Interior Department draft plan to open wildernesslands in Northern Alaska to oil and gas exploration.    The federation, the nation's largest conservation group,said further study was needed to assess any possible damagethat development might have on the wildlife in the area, thecoastal plain of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge.    Jay Hair, the federation's executive vice president, calledthe Interior's research into the effects of development "sofundamentally flawed that it provides little or no basis onwhich to make a public policy decision.
"    Hair called the department's proposal a "reflection of alargely political decision," adding "we have no confidence inInterior to represent the broad public interest in this area."    Interior wants to open the 1.5 million acre coastal plainto oil and gas exploration, but it said only with tough safeguards to protect the area's caribou and musk-oxen.
    It said a preliminary survey showed the region could holdbillions of barrels of oil and gas, and that its potential asan energy resource would never be known without exploration.    Interior said oil on the coastal plain could match the 10billion barrels found at Prudhoe Bay, just west of the plain.    Under existing law, Congress must agree to oil and gasexploration, and if it does not act, the land will remain awildlife refuge protected from commercial development.
    Hair said Interior's report failed to stress theprobability that finding recoverable oil is only 19 pct.    He said Interior's study also failed to weigh oil, gas,fish and wildlife information the State of Alaska had gatherednor had the department consulted the Environmental ProtectionAgency on the possible effects of exploration.    The federation, in letters to Congressmen, proposed that anine-member commission be set up to study all aspects of theissue and report back to Congress in about two years.
    Hair said the federation was not opposed to the possibleexploration of oil, only that Interior's study was inadquate tomake a sound judgement.    Congressional observers said that at present there waslittle sentiment in Congress to open the wildlife area forcommercial exploitation dispite increasing concern that theUnited States is becoming overly dependent on foreign oil. reuter