MONTEDISON, OTHER REFINERIES TO SHUT FOR WORK
Selm-Societa Energia Montedison is toclose its Priolo crude refining units from March 15th to March28th for maintenance, a company spokesman said.    Throughput at the refinery is currently estimated at140-150,000 bpd, although total capacity is nearer 200,000 bpd.    Several other Mediterranean refineries are currentlyshutdown for maintenance, most of which were scheduled somemonths ago.
 But industry sources said that shutdowns may havebeen rearranged to avoid running negative-netback crude.     Tighter availabilities of products as a result of the shutdowns in the Med is helping to keep products marketsbullish, particularly for March deliveries, oil traders said.    Garrone's refinery at San Quirico (capacity 130,000 bpd) isdue to shutdown on March 14th for three weeks, and thejointly-owned ISAB/Garrone refinery at Mellili, capacity220,000 bpd, is due to start up around March 20-25th followingits closure for maintenance a month ago, a company spokesmansaid.
    The Esso Italiana refineries at Augusta and Siracusa willnot be closing this spring, a spokesman for the company said.    In France, the distillation unit at Societe Francaise deBP's Lavera refinery has been closed for maintenance sinceMarch 2, and is due to restart early April. Total capacity is181,900 bpd.
 It is currently operating at around 50 pctcapacity, a company spokesman said.    Shell Francaise's Berre l'Etang refinery will shut down inearly April until mid-June, a company spokesman said. Capacityis around 150,000 bpd.
 Compagnie Francaise de Raffinage (CFR)will close the visbreaker at its La Mede refinery in earlyApril, but would not affect crude throughput at the refinery, acompany spokesman said. Current capacity is 136,000 bbl/day.    Despite current bullish sentiment in the Med, however,traders noted that crude netbacks are beginning to look moreattractive, and most maintenance shutdowns should be finishedin two to three weeks.
    As a result, oil industry sources suggest that thesituation may ease by mid-April. Reuter