MOBIL <MOB> CAPITAL EXPENDITURES LOWER IN 1987
Mobil Corp chairman Allen E. Murraysaid in the annual report issued today that the company's total1987 capital expenditures would be lower than the threebillion dlrs spent in 1986.    "Overall capital and exploration expenditures will fallslightly below the level for 1986 although we'll be ready toincrease spending whenever the outlook becomes more promising,"Murray said.    Mobil data in the annual report shows capital expenditureshave been cut every year since 1984's 3.
6 billion dlrs to 3.5billion dlrs in 1985.    Murray told shareholders that despite the cuts "the companyhas promising acreage to explore as well as major oil and gasreserves to develop in the U.S., Canada, Europe, Africa andIndonesia.
    Over the past two weeks Mobil has announced restructuringof its domestic exploration and development organization andthis week a restructuring of its oil services units, whichsupport the new affiliate.    "Mobil's chairman has explained this change by saying weneed a leaner organization to get more efficient usage from ourassets," said John Lord, a Mobil Corp spokesman.    Murray said in announcing the first reorganization, whichwill combine its current three exploration and producingaffiliates into one organization, Mobil Exploration andProduction U.S. Inc, that it is more effective than the presentorganization and will improve the company's upstreamcompetitive position.
    Yesterday the company said that it will restructure itsMobil Exploration and Producing Services Inc, MEPSI, to enhancethe development and transfer of technology supporting criticalareas of exploration, drilling, resevoir management andcomputer systems.    Earnings from Mobil's upstream operations in 1986 were 827mln dlrs, down 54 pct from the previous year's 1.8 billion dlrsin earnings.
    Mobil's strategy in the exploration and production sectorwill be to give most attention to exploration possibilitieswith the greatest long term potential, the company said.    In its annual report, Mobil said that this will includegreater emphasis on "frontier plays that, although riskier, fitour strengths of technology and size..
.This probably also meansa shift toward emphasis in the foreign area since selectiveoverseas exploration offers greater potential." Reuter