BRAZILIAN TROOPS TO LEAVE OIL REFINERIES
Brazil's labour troubles eased alittle today as the authorities announced they were withdrawingtroops from the country's main oil installations occupied threedays ago.    The troops went in at the request of the state-oil companyPetrobras because of the threat of a strike by 55,000 oilindustry employees.    Petrobras said in a statement today it had requested thewithdrawal of the troops.
 The situation in the refineries wascalm, it said, and the employees had indicated theirwillingness to negotiate a pay deal.    A national seamen's strike, however, continued and marinesremained in the country's main ports. The marines weredespatched to the ports after the seamen's strike, now twoweeks old, was ruled illegal last Friday.
    A spokesman at the national strike headquarters in Rio deJaneiro said today a total of l63 ships were strike-bound, 135in Brazil and 28 in foreign ports.    Yesterday two small companies specialised in the transportof chemicals, Global and Flumar, struck a pay accord with theirseamen who have secured a 120 pct increase.    Brazilian newspapers today hailed these agreements as asign that the national strike could soon come to an end.
    Both companies employ fewer than 200 seamen and unionleaders said the vast majority of Brazil's 40,000 seamen werestill on strike.    The threat of a stoppage by oil industry employees appearedtoday to be receding. Petrobras said in its statement that thecompany would meet union leaders for pay talks in Rio deJaneiro next Wednesday.
    Labour Minister Almir Pazzionotto would act as a mediator.    Besides industrial troubles, there has also beenconsiderable unrest this week in the agricultural sector.    On Tuesday hundreds of thousands of farmers held ralliesthroughout the country to protest against high interest rates.
    Television reports showed some of these protests stillcontinuing today, with farmers blockading banks with theirvehicles in several towns in the states of Sao Paulo andParana.    The strikes in Brazil come as the government is trying toextricate itself from a serious debt crisis brought on by adeterioration in its trade balance.    On February 20 President Jose Sarney announced that Brazilwas suspending interest payments on 68 billion dlrs of debt toprivate banks.
    Because of the seamen strike exports are being delayed andthe country is losing badly needed foreign exchange. Reuter