SAUDI OIL MINISTER SEES NO NEED TO ALTER OPEC PACT
Saudi Arabian Oil Minister Hisham Nazersaid OPEC's December agreement to stabilise oil prices at 18dlrs a barrel was being implemented satisfactorily and therewas no immediate need to change it.    Nazer, in an interview with Reuters and the television newsagency Visnews, said Saudi Arabia was producing around threemln barrels per day (bpd) of crude oil, well below its OPECquota.    Saudi Arabia, the world's largest oil exporter, willcontinue to restrain production as long as other OPEC membersadhere to the pact, Nazer said.
    The 13-nation OPEC agreed in December to cut its productionceiling by 7.25 pct to 15.8 mln bpd and abide by fixed pricesaveraging 18 dlrs a barrel from February 1.
    Nazer, in his first interview since succeeding Ahmed ZakiYamani last October, said: "I do not foresee any need for newmeasures before the 25th of June when our (next OPEC) meetingwill take place as scheduled."    Nazer said OPEC was producing below 15.8 mln bpd and allmembers were abiding by its agreements.
    "We've heard news every now and then of violations but theywere not at all verified," he said.    OPEC production curbs have boosted world oil prices from a13-year low of around eight dlrs a barrel last August to near18 dlrs after announcement of the December pact.    Spot market prices slipped some two dlrs in February buthave firmed in the past two weeks to near OPEC levels astraders gained confidence in OPEC price and output discipline.
    Nazer said Saudi Arabia would continue to produce below its4.133 mln bpd quota if necessary to defend the 18 dlr price.    "As long as all the OPEC members adhere to the program asdevised in December, Saudi Arabia will continue to adhere tothe agreement," he said.
    Current production of three mln bpd includes oil from theNeutral Zone shared with Kuwait, but not sales from floatingstorage, Nazer said.    King Fahd of Saudi Arabia, in an interview with Reuters andVisnews on March 11, said the kingdom wanted oil pricestability and called on non-OPEC producers to avoid harmfulcompetition with OPEC.    "Saudi Arabia doesn't decide prices by itself but certainlydesires price stability," he said.    Nazer said the output level did not mean the kingdom hadreturned to a role of "swing producer" within OPEC.    Saudi Arabia allowed its output to sink as low as two mlnbpd in August 1985 to compensate for slack demand andover-production by some OPEC states.
    "Saudi Arabia is not playing that role. It is being playedby OPEC membership as a whole because the reduction in the 15.8mln bpd share of OPEC in the market is being shared by othermembers of OPEC," Nazer said.
    Nazer said OPEC estimated demand for its oil during thirdquarter this year would be around 16.6 mln bpd.    But he said if circumstances changed "I am sure then theOPEC members will consult with each other and take thenecessary measures.
"    Oil analysts say the OPEC pact could come under strain whendemand for petroleum products generally falls in the northernhemisphere spring and summer.    Nazer said he was satisfied with the extent of cooperationfrom non-OPEC producers. Norway, Egypt and the Soviet Unionagreed to help OPEC by restraining production or exports afterhe visited them on OPEC's behalf earlier this year.
    "We did not ask any country to do anything. These wereprogrammes they thought were necessary to stabilise marketconditions and to help themselves attain better pricingconditions," Nazer said.    He said it was up to countries that declined to cooperate-- such as Britain -- to come up with their own proposals ifthey saw fit.
 REUTER