SAUDI BUSINESSMEN TO DISCUSS PRIVATE SECTOR
Saudi Arabian businessleaders assembled for a conference aimed at thrashing outproblems facing the private sector of the kingdom'soil-dependent economy.    The meeting of some 500 top businessmen from across SaudiArabia comes at a time of guarded optimism in industry andcommerce following the OPEC pact to boost world oil prices.    The four-day conference in this resort town, high in themountains above the Tihamah plain stretching to the Red Sea,has been organised by Saudi Arabia's chambers of commerce.
    Finance Minister Mohammed Ali Abal-Khail and CommerceMinister Suleiman Abdulaziz al-Salim will attend the first day.    Bankers and businessmen said the conference will airproblems facing commerce and industry after last year's slidein oil prices and examine ways to promote higher investment ina private sector sorely short of finance.    Government planners have long recognised that Saudi Arabia,the world's largest crude exporter, needs to foster privateenterprise to diversify its oil-based economy.
    The fledgling private sector was hard hit by the MiddleEast recession as early as 1983 and several big manufacturingand trading companies ran into problems repaying loans.    Renewed optimism this year stems largely from the accordreached by OPEC last December to curb oil output and boostprices to a benchmark level of 18 dlrs per barrel.    With oil prices recovering, Saudi Arabia went ahead at theturn of the year with long-delayed budget plans incorporating a52.
7 billion riyal deficit to be bridged by drawing downforeign reserves.    The simple act of publishing a budget restored a measure ofconfidence to the business community.    Some share prices have risen by more than 35 pct since lastNovember, while banks are generally reporting a slowdown in thenumber of new non-performing loans.
    But not all bankers are convinced. One senior corporatefinance manager in Riyadh said: "Banks are still reluctant tolend ..
. There is certainly more optimism in the air, but I amnot sure if it is firmly based."    Some businessmen and bankers point out that governmentspending is still under tight control and the non-oil economymay still be contracting.
    Capital expenditure on large projects has been cut sharply.A U.S. Embassy report on Saudi Arabia published just before thebudget said: "While industrialisation has continued to be one ofthe government's highest priorities, the recession, thepayments problem and the lack of financing have reduced Saudiand foreign investor interest in industry."    It is the lack of fresh investment that is expected to be amajor issue among the businessmen gathered here.
    Official figures show the number of new licences forindustrial ventures fell 24 pct in the six months to March1986, compared with the same period in 1985.    Lending by the Saudi Industrial Development Fund, a majorsource of industry backing, has fallen steadily since 1983.    Trading companies have also been hit, some caught with hugeinventories of construction equipment as recession bit.
    Some firms laid off workers and cut bloated inventories.Others have effectively been liquidated. A few have reachedagreement with bankers to extend debt repayments.
    The latest rescheduling is for the shipping-to-hotelsconglomerate REDEC. Its negotiators have just initialled adraft accord to restructure payments on 1.3 billion riyals ofbank debt.    Bankers and businessmen said the conference was also likelyto discuss the apparent reluctance of U.S. And British firms tostep up investment in the kingdom.
    A British government delegation has just left Riyadh afterholding preliminary talks on ways of offsetting the huge Saudioutlay on a defence contract to supply 132 fighter aircraftworth five billion stg. REUTER