MEES SAYS SECOND WEEK MARCH OPEC OUTPUT 14 MLN BPD
OPEC produced only about 14 mln bpd ofoil in the second week of March -- 1.8 mln bpd below itsceiling -- largely because of pipeline problems in Turkey andEcuador, the Middle East Economic Survey (MEES) estimated.    A landslide breached Iraq's one mln bpd pipeline throughTurkey on March 6 for a week, and earthquakes in Ecuador haveshut down its export pipeline for four to five months.
 Ecuadorhas an OPEC quota of 210,000 bpd.    MEES put Saudi Arabian output at 2.9 mln bpd in the firstweek of March and 3.
1 mln bpd in the second, in addition tooutput from the Neutral Zone between Saudi Arabia and Kuwait.    MEES said Saudi Arabia was pumping more than 300,000 bpd ofits total production into floating storage.    Saudi Oil Minister Hisham Nazer told Reuters and thetelevision news agency Visnews yesterday that Saudi output,including Neutral Zone production, was around three mln bpd.
    The Cyprus-based newsletter also said authoritative Libyanoil sources said Libya was producing 850,000 bpd, compared withits 948,000 bpd quota, and that actual liftings are much lowerthan that.    It said one major Libyan equity producer had partiallystopped lifting its 55,000 bpd equity entitlement for Marchbecause Libya was insisting on official prices, but is stilllifting 40,000 bpd of debt crude at official prices and afurther 25,000 bpd of "purchase crude."    It said small equity producers, with entitlements of only2,000 to 3,000 bpd, had also told Tripoli they could not liftat official prices.
    MEES said Iraq had sent a telex to OPEC and membercountries calling for the formation of a committee to studywhat it said were inequalities in marketing potential amongvarious members.    The newsletter said the Iraqi letter indicated Baghdad washaving difficulty selling crude at official prices.    The Iraqi telex pointed out that some member countriesexport substantial volumes of oil that are not subject to OPECprice regulations -- exports of refined products, equity crudeon which the margins are equivalent to covert discounts and"other forms of hydrocarbons" which are marketed in package dealswith crude oil.
 REUTER