EXXON <XON> MAY CLOSE ONE FRENCH REFINERY
Exxon Corp, the world's largest oilcompany, said in a published interview today that it wasreviewing its worldwide refinery operations and might decide toclose on of its french refineries.    Lee R. Raymond, Exxon's new president, singled out thepossibility of a closure of one of Exxon's refineries in Franceduring the interview.    An Exxon spokeswoman confirmed that Raymond hadspecifically mentioned refineries in France but said that nospecific refinery had been named.
 She also said that all ofExxon's opertations were under constant review.    Exxon currently has two refineries in France, FOS in themediterranean with a capcity of 175,000 barrels per day andPort Jerome west of paris with a similar capacity.    Petroleum Intelligence Weekly, an influential tradejournal, said, in its current issue, that they understood thatExxon was looking at the possibility of refinery closures inAntwerp, Southern France or possibly Italy.
    Paul Mlotok, oil analyst with Salomon Brothers inc saidthat with the closures Exxon made in 1986 in Europe and theimprovement in the European refining situation, its futureprofits there should be good.    "Exxon and other major oil companies have closed a bunch ofrefineries in Europe, upgraded the rest and shaken many of theindepedents out of the market. Now with demand for productsrising and efficient operations, Exxon should show superiorearnings," Mlotok said.
    "Just after Royal Dutch <RD>, they are seen as one of thehighest grade refiners in Europe," he added.    Industry sources said that the oil companies were likely tofeel greater pressure on their operations in Southern Europewhere competition from the OPEC countries is increasing asthese producers move further into downstream operations.    PIW said that refiners in the Mediterranean can expectincreased shipments from Saudi Arabia and other OPEC exportrefineries.
    PIW said "sales from Libya, Algeria and elsewhere areexpected to reclaim markets lost to Italian and other Europeanrefiners as a result of the abundance of cheap netback oil lastyear." Reuter