LAWSON OIL TAX BREAKS TO HELP NEW FIELDS - REVENUE
Two new U.K. Tax relief measures for oilproducers, announced today, are aimed at encouragingdevelopments in the North Sea to go ahead and boostopportunities for the offshore supplies industry, the InlandRevenue said in a post-budget statement.    Earlier, Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson announcedin his annual budget to Parliament that from today, companieswill be allowed to offset up to 10 pct of qualifyingdevelopment expenditure on certain future oil fields againstPetroleum Revenue Tax (PRT).    To date, full relief was allowed for expenditure on anindividual field itself, when its income stream began, but wasnot immediately available against other developmentexpenditure, the statement said.
    The new relief will apply to fields outside the southernbasin for which developmentconsent is first given on or after today, and will improve thepost-tax economics of new developments and encourage companiesto proceed with project which might have been delayed, it said.    Lawson also announced that he would henceforth allowcertain expenditure on oil related research which does not atpresent qualify for PRT relief to be offset against PRTliability.    This means oil-related expenditure in the U.K. Or on theU.K. Continental shelf, which has not become allowable in aparticular field within three years of being incurred, to beallowed against PRT liability in any oil field, the InlandRevenue said.
    This brings the scope of PRT relief for research costs morein line with corporation tax relief measures, and is planned toencourage general research into ways of reducing fielddevelopment costs, it said.    In due course, the industry should benefit by over 100 mlnstg a year, it calculated.    The Inland Revenue statement also included other technicalmeasures that Lawson did not comment on in his budget speech.
    These included measures to allow companies to balance theirshares of PRT-exempt oil allowances through reallocation in twopast periods of allowance utilisation.    Tidier rules on incorrectly allowed PRT expenditure reliefswere announced, while there were also ammendments on rules oncorporation tax and Advance Corporation Tax relating to theso-called "ring fence" of activities in the U.K. And itscontinental shelf. The Finance Bill will have provisions forthe implementation of measures announced in November, it said.
    Gareth Lewis Davies, a North Sea expert with stockbrokersWood Mackenzie and Co Inc in Edinburgh, thought the two reliefson PRT would help the depressed offshore industry.    He said the 10 pct cross field allowance relief wouldfavour chances that development of smaller North Sea fieldssuch Osprey, Don and Arbroath would be brought forward.    Early development of the larger Miller and Bruce oil fieldsmight also be encouraged, he said.
    Lewis Davies said the measure might also aid the offshoreconstruction industry, which suffered a huge amount of lay-offsunder the price slump of more than 50 pct last year.    He pointed out that the relief only applies to thedevelopment of new fields outside the Southern Basin.    This means more jobs could be created, as the fields in thecentral and northern sectors of the North Sea are deeper thanin the south and thus have greater capital and labourrequirements as the waters are deeper than in the south.
    He said the PRT relief for certain research expenditurewould help fundamental research in the oil industry, althoughthe benefits of this research would not be seen for severalyear. REUTER