OPEC WANTS 18 DLR OIL PRICE - OAPEC OFFICIAL
OPEC believes world oil prices shouldbe set around a fixed average price of 18 dlrs a barrel, OAPECAssistant General Secretary Abdelaziz Al-Wattari said today.    In a speech to a European Community (EC)/OAPEC/OPEC seminarin Luxembourg released here, Al-Wattari said: "OPEC believes..
.The world energy trade should be kept without restrictionsand should be built around a fixed average price of 18 dlrs."    But he warned that defense of the 18 dlr a barrel level hadcaused hardship for OPEC countries, who had been forced tocurtail production, and he warned that such cutbacks by OPECstates could not be sustained in some cases.
    "For OPEC to stabilize the world oil price at what is nowconsidered the optimal level of 18 dlrs a barrel, its membercountries have had to undergo severe hardship in curtailingproduction," Al-Wattari said.    "Such cutbacks ..
. Cannot, in certain cases, be sustained,"Al-Wattari said. As well as financial and marketing pressures,some states depended on associated gas output for domestic useand oil cutbacks had left insufficient gas supplies, he added.
    Al-Wattari noted that total OPEC output was below theorganization's agreed ceiling for all member countries inFebruary, although this had meant sacrifices.    The effect of these sacrifices meant that market stability,though restored to a good level, was still under pressure,Al-Wattari said. "A lasting stability in the world marketrequires a wider scope of international cooperation," he added.
    He said some non-OPEC oil producing countries had shown apolitical willingness after 1986 to cooperate with OPEC.    But although cutbacks announced by these states werepolitically significant and welcomed by OPEC, they wereinsufficient in terms of volume, he added. "The overall majorityof non-OPEC producers have not responded sufficiently to OPEC'scalls for supply regulation," he said.    Al-Wattari said an 18 dlr a barrel price was optimal as itallowed investment in the oil industry outside OPEC tocontinue, while not generating excessive cash flow forotherwise unviable high-cost areas outside OPEC. Such a pricewould no longer encourage protectionist measures, he added.
    Fadhil Al-Chalabi, OPEC Deputy Secretary General, alsoaddressing the seminar, added that discipline was still neededto prevent violent fluctuations in the oil market.    Cooperation between Arab states and Europe was advantageousfor both sides, Al-Chalabi said, adding he hoped cooperationwould ultimately lead to full-fledged Euro-Arab dialogue. Reuter