ENERGY/DRILLING INDUSTRY
The drastic cutbacks in U.S. drillinglast year are rapidly deflating the United State's natural gasbubble, which could bring spot shortages in gas supplies nextwinter and a modest recovery in the oilpatch, industry analystssaid.    Faltering deliverability of natural gas, a commodity thatis difficult and costly to import in large quantities, couldmore than double the current U.S. rig count to near 2,000 by1990, some analysts said.    The need to lock in future supplies of gas for utilitiesand big industrial customers may also bring a resurgence ofactivity in the Gulf of Mexico's offshore waters where some ofthe nation's largest gas reserves are located.
    "We think an upturn in U.S. drilling is imminent," saidJames Crandall, an analyst with Salomon Brothers Inc. "Manycompanies appear to be switching from oil to gas drillingbecause they're betting that the gas market will be back inbalance in a year or two."    The prospect of diminishing gas supplies is welcome newsfor drilling and oilfield service companies that barelysurvived last year's plunge in oil prices from about 30 dlrs abarrel to less than half that.
 Today's relatively stable oilprices of about 18 dlrs a barrel are not enough to spur areturn to the heady days of 1981 when the U.S. drilling rigcount soared to a record high of more than 4,500 and oilfieldroustabouts commanded premium wages.    The latest weekly Hughes Tool Co <HT> rig count, abarometer of the oil industry's health, showed 761 U.S. rigsactive in what is traditionally the slowest time of the year.    In 1986, the Hughes rig count began the year at 1,915 butdived to a post-World War II low of 663 in July as world oilprices experienced the sharpest decline in recent times.
    Ike Kerridge, a Hughes economist, said "In 1986, the UnitedStates replaced only about 40 pct of the gas it used and thatreplacement rate won't be any better this year."    He added, "We don't have the options we do with oil.Imports of gas from Canada are limited by pipeline capacity andimporting liquefied natural gas on ships will not be feasiblein the next 10 years because of the cost.
"    Only about 6 trillion cubic feet of additional gas reserveswere discovered last year while U.S. consumption approached 16trillion cubic feet, according to industry estimates.    George Gaspar, an oil analyst with Robert W. Baird and Coagreed that the need for gas supplies would set the stage for anew cycle of gradual increases in U.S. drilling.    "We anticipate that natural gas pipelines will need todedicate to their systems new gas reserves for 1989 and 1990supplies.
 That means new drilling programs must begin no laterthan mid-1988," Gaspar said.    Gasper said he sees a new drilling cycle emerging thatcould last until 1992 and that he expects the average rig countto peak near 2,000 in December of 1989.    Much of the search for new gas reserves is likely to beconducted in the offshore waters of the Gulf of Mexico, wherefederal leases on unexplored areas will revert back to thegovernment unless drilling begins in the next two or threeyears.
 Some of the industry's biggest companies, such as ExxonCorp <XON>, Mobil Corp MOB, and Union Texas Petroleum havealready indicated plans to increase spending for drilling laterthis year in the Gulf of Mexico, Crandall said.    For example, Conoco Inc, a Dupont <DD> subsidiary, willspend 400 mln dlrs to build the Gulf of Mexico's deepestproduction platform, which will produce 50 mln cubic feet ofgas per day.    But T. Boone Pickens, who has acquired huge Texas andKansas gas reserves for his Mesa Limited Partnership <MLP> inrecent months, is not convinced that the drilling industry ison the verge of a recovery.
    Pickens predicts the U.S. rig count will soon drop below600 and will not increase significantly until oil prices do.    "The rigs won't go back to work until the price of oil getsabove 30 dlrs a barrel," said Pickens, 58, adding he did notexpect to see the rig count top 2,000 again in his lifetime.    Tenneco Inc <TGT>, one of the largest U.S. gas producers,is skeptical that a need for additional gas drilling exists.
    Tenneco vice president Joe Foster said he did not expectsignificant increases in drilling for gas until the early 1990swhen the U.S. gas reserves life will have declined to aboutseven years' supply. Current spot market prices of about 1.50dlrs per thousand cubic feet will need to rise to about threedlrs to spur reserve replacement, he said.
 Reuter