U.S. ENERGY INDUSTRY SAID IN BETTER HEALTH
The U.S. oil and gas industry is inbetter health than it was a year ago, according to testimonygiven to the Texas Railroad Commission at its annual state ofthe industry hearing today.     The Commission, which regulates the state's oil and gasindustry, heard testimony from a number of high-level companyexecutives reflecting a belief that the recent industrydownturn had bottomed out.     "The attitude expressed here today so far is a great dealmore optimistic (than last year)," Commissioner James E. (Jim)Nugent told Reuters.
     "It reflects their (the executives) belief that they areseeing the bottom of the economic cycle," he added, "and withjust a few reasonable breaks this industry can begin to moveagain."     The energy industry was hard hit by the sharp drop in oilprices, which fell from around 30 dlrs a barrel in late 1985 toas low as 10 dlrs in mid-1986. Prices have since steadied toaround 18 dlrs a barrel.
     At the same time, a number of company executives testifiedthat the nation's domestic exploration and production segmentwas still hurting and in need of government help.     Production costs are considerably higher in the UnitedStates than in such areas as the Middle East and as prices fellmany domestic producers were forced to shut down theiroperations. Currently, there are only about 760 oil rigsoperating in the United States compared with an average ofnearly 2,000 in 1985.
     Citing a study released yesterday by the Department ofEnergy, many said the falling production of domestic oilcoupled with increasing U.S. demand, was leading to a growingdependency on imports, particularly from the politicallyvolatile Middle East.     "In the U.S., 1986 petroleum production responded to lowerprices, increasing about 2.5 pct, or 400,000 barrels per day(bpd)," said J.S. Simon, General Manager of the SupplyDepartment at Exxon Corp <XON>, the nation's largest oilcompany.
     At the same time, Simon said "U.S. oil production declinedby 300,000 bpd, the first decline in several years," and "netpetroleum imports were up 25 pct to 5.3 mln bpd."     Noting that while oil prices were expected to remainbetween 13 and 20 dlrs a barrel, depending on OPEC's ability tocontrol production, Simon said demand is expected to remain at1986 levels, leading to "a significant amount of spareworldwide production capacity, in excess of 10 mln bpd.
"     He said the surplus capacity would lead to continuedvolatility and called for "governmental and regulatory policiesin support of the domestic petroleum industry."     Citing the costs recently imposed by the federalgovernment through the 1986 tax code changes and "Superfund"legislation, Simon called for the repeal of the windfallprofits tax, total decontrol of natural gas and improved accessto federal lands for oil and gas exploration.     Simon did not mention an oil import fee, which many in theindustry have called for as a way of building up the nation'sdomestic operations before imports reach such a level thatnational security might be compromised.
     In yesterday's report, the Energy Department said importscould make up 50 pct of U.S. demand by 1995, adding thatPersian Gulf producers will provide as much as 65 pct of thefree world's total oil consumption by that date.     Arguing that "oil is a political tool in every nation onearth," Frank Pitts, chairman of <Pitts Oil Co>, today calledfor a variable oil import fee, among other measures, "beforethe treacherous foothold of the Middle East is irreversible andour national security is compromised."     Royce Wisenbaker, Chairman of Wisenbaker Production Co,agreed, saying that like many federal government programs thatwere set up with good intentions, it would probably turn into a"shambles.
"     Wisenbaker added that he was optimistic for the future."For those of us who have managed to hold on, the worst isover," he said.     Roger Hemminghaus, President of Diamond Shamrock Refiningand Marketing Co, said he was "enthusiastic about the future,"adding that he expected "an increase in profitability bymidyear.
" Reuter