NE ELECTRIC SEES HIGHER CONSTRUCTION OUTLAYS
New England Electric System <NES>expects its cash construction spending to reach 205 mln dlrsthis year, up from 188 mln dlrs in 1986, the utility said inmaterial distributed at an analysts meeting.    It said spending is expected to advance to 215 mln dlrs in1988 and 220 mln dlrs in 1989.    The utility said these totals exclude spending on NewEngland Hydro-Transmission being built to import electricityfrom Quebec Hydro.
 New England Electric is the operator of thisventure as well as owning 51 pct of the project.    The venture expects to spend 65 mln dlr this year, 105 mlndlrs next year and 125 mln dlrs in 1989 to build transmissionlines from northern Quebec into New England, the utility said.    New England Electric said internally generated funds willcover all of its power plant construction costs this year and65 pct of the 108 mln dlrs its retail distribution units planto spend in 1987.
    The company said it also expects to spend 60 mln dlrs onits oil and gas activities this year, adding internallygenerated funds are expected to provide 85 pct of this total.    New England Electric said it plans to issue 30 mln dlrsworth of pollution control bonds in 1987 and retire additionalhigher cost preferred stock. Its Granite State Electric unitplans to issue five mln dlrs of long term notes early this yearas well.
    The company said it does not plan to offer common sharesthis year or in the foreseeable future, but expects to raiseabout 40 mln dlrs in equity through the sale of stock under itsdividend reinvestment plan and employee share plans.    President Samuel Huntington told the analysts theconstruction spending projection is based on the expectationthat demand for electricity in the New England electric systemwill grow about two pct a year for the next 15 years.    However, the utility cannot ignore the potential forsharper growth, he said, pointing out that demand was up 5.
2pct in 1986 and 4.7 pct per year in the past four years.    He attributed this growth to declining electricity pricesand a strong New England economy.
    Huntington said New England Elecetric has "all but rejectednew coal fired plants" to supply additional power.    He said the most attractive new power supplies are thosewith short lead times which can be built in modules.    Later, vice president Glenn Schleede said the utility islooking at gas-fired, combined cycle generating units to supplymost of its new power needs, but has not rejected coal-firedfluidized bed units.
    He explained that fluidized bed technology is available inmodular units, adding that Huntington was referring to thetraditional coal-fired plant which burns pulverized coal. Reuter